This star system is in utter chaos. A vast number of Mereti drones are here. Some are attacking each other. Others are attacking the Wanderers. And still others, sadly, seem intent on attacking you. You'll have to hold them off as long as you can, while trying to stay on the good side of the drones that now seem to be defending you.
The last of the hostile Kor Mereti drones are destroyed; the remaining drones are not attacking the Wanderers. It is not entirely clear what has happened, but hopefully the Wanderers back on <planet> will have gained some information through the backdoor connection to their AI.
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still hostile Kor Mereti drones in the Chimitarp system. Better depart and make sure they've been taken care of.
	Far from the ruined cities, the Kor Mereti have begun building a sort of village of their own: a sprawling complex of greenhouses containing a wide variety of plant samples.
Investigate <planet>
Visit <destination> and figure out what the Kor Mereti are doing there, now that they are apparently no longer hostile.
The Wanderers back on <origin> are in a frenzy to know the outcome of the battle. Pa'aret tells you, "Less than a second after the Mind [made contact, merged] with the Mereti, it severed the [backdoor, failsafe] connection. So we have no [information, visibility] on what the Mind is doing or whether the Mereti [received, welcomed] it."
	"Most of the drones started fighting on our side. That seems like a good sign."
	"They've sealed up access to the Mind. There is no way we can get it back now."
	"Indeed," says Pa'aret. "But whatever [transformation, change] the Mind [wreaks, catalyzes] may not be complete. It is too soon to trust that we have [succeeded, chosen correctly]."
	"That is [gratifying, encouraging]," says Pa'aret. "Surely if they viewed it as an [intruder, enemy] they would have destroyed the Mind rather than building a [nest, fortress] to protect it."
	A few minutes later Tele'ek arrives with some scout ships from the Wanderer fleet. "The drones have sealed up every [entrance, ingress] to that station," he says, "and they are [swarming, gathering] around it [protectively, jealously]. There is no way we can return there to [discover, assess] what is happening inside. And there is also some [activity, development] on the planet's surface."
	"What sort of activity?"
	"I'd like to go and investigate."
	"They seem to be [scavenging, hunting] for resources to build something," says Pa'aret. "It is [strange, surprising]; the Mereti drones until now were ignoring the planets in their [systems, territory]. Would you be [willing, bold] to land your ship on the surface and investigate?" You agree to do so.
	The Wanderers wish you the best of luck, and you prepare to return to the <system> system. Hopefully the Mereti drones will not become hostile once more while you are landed on the planet's surface, exposed and relatively defenseless.
Investigate <origin>
Report the new behavior of the Kor Mereti drones to the Wanderers.
You will need 1 ton of cargo space to receive the next mission.
As you come in for a landing, you see that the Kor Mereti drones, which up until recently had been ignoring the surfaces of the planets they controlled, are now constructing some sort of facility on <origin>. Sunlight glints off the fresh and spotless buildings, but it is not until you are only a few dozen meters above it that you realize what the facility is.
	It is a greenhouse.
	Inside the facility are rows and rows of plants of all different shapes and sizes. Like the Mereti drones themselves, the layout of the facility is random and haphazard. Drones nearly the size of a shuttlecraft buzz around it like bees, some of them arriving with fresh samples and others tending and watering the plants.
	A few drones approach your ship when it lands, and one of them speaks in a booming, synthesized voice. "You are the human who helped us [fight, resist] the warlike Hai," it says. "You are our friend."
	"Do you mean that I helped the Wanderers? I don't recall the Unfettered entering Korath space or attacking you."
	"Yes, I am your friend."
	The drone hesitates for a moment as if confused, then says, "You helped us [hold back, resist] the Unfettered in our old territory, for long enough that we could enter the Eye, and Molt, and take on our new [form, essence]."
	The drone says, "We are grateful to you. You [won, earned] us enough time to enter the Eye, and Molt, and take on our new [form, essence]."
	"You are not Wanderers. You were created by the Korath."
	"Are you saying that you are the new form of the Wanderers?"
	The drone repeats, "We entered the Eye. We took on a new form. We are the [children, offspring] born to the Wanderers in their new place of [sojourn, wandering]."
	The drone says, haltingly, "The Korath. The Korath... created our bodies? Yes, the Korath created our bodies." It sounds like it's either conversing with someone else, or perhaps trying hard to remember something. "Yes, but the Wanderers..." It tilts its body closer to you. In a slightly less booming voice, which is perhaps its attempt at a whisper, it says, "The Wanderers created our soul."
	While you are still trying to process the drone's statement, another drone comes flying out of the greenhouse facility carrying a large square metal pot. The pot is filled with soil, and in the soil is planted a small, very dry-looking bush with a few dead leaves clinging to it. "We broke it," says the drone. "Fix it please."
	"I think it's dead."
	(Look at the plant more closely.)
	The plant is dry and brittle, and shows no signs of life. "I'm sorry," you say, "but I think it's dead."
	The drone says, "We gave it water. But maybe the dirt was [poisoned, unhealthy]. Or the light is too bright. A human cannot fix it, but our [parents? ancestors?] would know how. Will you bring it to them?"
	They seem too distraught about the dead plant to be willing to give you more information about themselves. Despite the absurdity of the situation, you agree to take the plant back to the Wanderers and see if they can do anything for it.
You've reached <planet>, but your escort who is carrying the dead plant hasn't arrived in the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Travel to <planet> to meet up with a team of Wanderer professors and scientists who are eager to work with the Kor Mereti drones.
It must reveal something interesting about Wanderer psychology that when you return, they are more interested in poking and prodding the dead plant than in hearing your report about the Mereti drones. But once they've sent off a soil sample to be analyzed and can achieve no more until the results come back, they listen to your story.
	"Our goal was to communicate with them," says Tele'ek, "not to [destroy, erase] their identity and replace it with our own. What have we done?"
	Meto Pa'aret has been listening quietly, and finally speaks up. "Identity is the story the mind tells to [explain? justify? give meaning to?] its existence," he says. "Perhaps before our [intrusion, intervention] the Mereti had intelligence but no story, and thus no [self-awareness, consciousness]."
	"Are you saying that we inadvertently created a sentient species?"
	"Does that make the Mereti less of a threat, or more of one?"
	Your question is completely ignored as, in response to Pa'aret's comment, the other Wanderers gain a renewed interest in the potted plant. "Very sturdy [construction, joining]," says one, running a talon along the corner of the pot.
	"Yes," says another, "but why make a [flower pot?] out of metal? It will oxidize."
	"They [learned, figured out] that the pot needs drainage holes," says another, looking at the bottom of the pot.
	"This is excellent work for such a [young, immature] species," says Sobari Tele'ek, with a hint of pride.
	"I'm sorry to interrupt, but have any of you thought through the implications of having created a new sentient species?"
	They are all silent for a moment, then Pa'aret says, "They will need [mentors, teachers]."
	Tema'a Iriket, the terraforming director, says, "I will ask <planet> to send a team of [experts? professors?] immediately. Captain <last>, can you journey there and escort them safely through the Eye and to Korbatri Eska?"
	You agree to do so. The Wanderers switch into their own language and begin an impassioned conversation as you leave the room to head back to your ship.
Wanderers to <planet>
Escort this Wanderer transport safely to <planet>, where the scientists and professors on board will begin teaching and mentoring the Kor Mereti.
A team of Wanderer terraforming experts has been assembled on <origin>. They have requisitioned a transport and filled it with an overwhelming variety of sensors, bioreactors, chemical filters, and other scientific devices. But, it's clear that none of them quite understand what is going on with the Kor Mereti. The team's manager says, "We are to meet with [sentient? awakened?] robots? They are interested in [foliage, plants]? There are worlds to be [repaired, healed]?"
	You do your best to answer their questions, but this is clearly not a situation that any of them had anticipated. Perhaps not even a situation that their species has ever had to deal with before, given that usually they are working in regions of space that have long since been abandoned by their former inhabitants.
	The transport gets ready to follow you back to <planet>, where hopefully more of their questions will be answered.
You've reached <planet>, but you left the Wanderer ship behind. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Return to <planet> to see what the Wanderer leaders have planned next.
When you last left <origin>, there were less than a dozen buildings in the greenhouse facility. It has now grown to the size of a major spaceport, including some towers that are dozens of stories high. Some plants now grow on open-air terraces; others are in domed enclosures tall enough to house fully-grown trees. The larger domes also have birds flying about inside them, and some larger land animals as well. Everything is built of gleaming steel and glass and filled with lush vegetation; from high above the facility looks like a scattered handful of diamonds and emeralds.
	The transport you were escorting was full of professors and researchers, who are clearly not used to any sort of military discipline or to living in a dangerous region of space: the moment the transport lands they fly off toward the greenhouse without bothering to wait for instructions from their supposed manager. Several of them are already engaged in conversation with the drones, while others are exploring the different rooms of the facility, examining plants and probing soil with their talons.
	The team's manager, already looking a bit overwhelmed, flies over to talk with you. "What are we [expected, requested] to do next?" he asks.
	"Help the drones to learn to take care of the planets in this region."
	"Make sure the drones remain convinced that the Wanderers are on their side."
	"Maybe see if the drones will share their technology with us? They have impressive weapons."
	He says, "We will try to do that. But this, storing [plants, living things] in boxes made of metal, is not the Wanderer way. We seek to return worlds to their [natural, pristine] state, not to build our own [monuments, structures] on them."
	"Very well," he says, "we will do that. Please return to <planet> and see what our [leaders, elders] think should be done next."
	He doesn't seem enthusiastic about that suggestion. "Human," he says, "you have very different [priorities, goals] than we do. I am more [excited, intrigued] by the possibility of using these drones for [renewal, creation] than by their capacity for destruction."
	You return to your ship. It will be interesting to see what else has changed the next time you return to this world.
The mood among the Wanderer leaders is much lighter now that the danger from the Mereti drones appears to have been eliminated. In fact, they're now so intrigued by the emergent Mereti consciousness that they don't seem to be thinking about the more distant threat of the drones in Kor Sestor space. Instead, they want to focus on their true calling: terraforming planets.
	Sobari Tele'ek tells you, "We should take time to enjoy this [peace, respite]. We need not [face, deal with] the other drones immediately. We will be working to start a second [settlement, base] nearby. Visit us there when the base is [formed, established] and we will decide our next [actions, steps]. In the meantime, our latest ship of [war, defense] is now being produced on our [major, central] worlds, and you may buy one."
Kor Efret Diplomacy
Visit Ektasi Rek on <planet> and see if the Kor Efret would like to come to <origin> for a diplomatic visit.
Most of the Wanderer elders have moved to this world, to be more involved in the newest terraforming effort, which they clearly find much more rewarding than the battle against the drones. After listening to them talk for nearly an hour about soil restoration and atmospheric particulates and carbon cycles, you ask what you can help them with next.
	Tema'a Iriket says, "We should take further action to [befriend, collaborate with] the Korath. Perhaps you could visit Rek, and [invite, welcome] her Korath friends to [witness, inspect] the work we are doing here? Our hope is that our next [settlement, project] will be a [joint effort?] with them."
	"What about dealing with the Sestor drones?"
	"There will be [time, opportunity] for that later," says Iriket. "They are not a [threat, pressing concern] to us at this time."
	You agree to visit the Kor Efreti and invite them to come back here for a visit.
Escort a Kor Efret ship back to <planet> for a diplomatic visit.
Rek is making marvelous progress not only in learning the Korath language, but also in winning their trust. They have built her a Wanderer-style treehouse here to live in, and it seems that she is entertaining a constant stream of new visitors. "What can I help you with?" she asks.
	"The Wanderers on <planet> want to invite some Kor Efret leaders to visit them."
	"What is your impression of the Korath so far?"
	She says, "We Wanderers have seen the ruins left behind by so many failed species. It puzzles us greatly to wonder why some are able to transition to a strong and stable and sustainable civilization, as we have done, while others descend into chaos. The Kor Efret hope that what they build out of the ashes will finally be a society of true peace and prosperity."
	You tell her about the Wanderer invitation, and she takes you to visit some of the Korath leaders. They are eager to learn more about the Wanderers, but after some negotiation they make it clear that they would prefer to travel in one of their own ships, and with Rek as their guest, rather than going as your passengers.
	(Agree to escort their ship to <planet>.)
	"I think you might be safer if you travel aboard my ship."
	Rek talks with them for a while, then explains to you, "They want to be in control of their own journey, rather than being no more than 'living cargo' aboard an alien ship. It sounds like this is a matter of honor." Since it seems like the only option, you agree to let them follow you to <planet> in their own ship.
You've reached <planet>, but the Korath ship isn't here yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Kor Efret Tour
Escort a Kor Efret ship to <planet>, to give them a taste of what Wanderer terraforming of a world can achieve.
The Kor Efret ship lands next to yours, and Rek brings their leaders to meet with the Wanderers. They spend nearly the whole day being led around the settlement, asking questions and inspecting the Wanderer terraforming equipment. But at last, one of the Korath leaders says, "How long until we will see the change here? How long until it will be clear that your plans will work?"
	When Tema'a Iriket, translating through Rek, explains that it will take centuries, the leader says, "Can you show us a world where you have completed your work?"
	The Wanderers discuss that, and Tele'ek says, "They should [visit, journey to] <planet>, and be shown what we can achieve at the [apex, conclusion] of our work. Captain <last>, will you [accompany, lead] them to there?"
	"Are you sure it is safe to let them bring their ship to your homeworld?"
	Tele'ek says, "If we do not [choose, take a risk] to trust them, they will never have [opportunity, impetus] to show themselves trustworthy. So, we will take the [first, catalyzing] step."
	You agree to escort the Kor Efret ship on a journey through the wormhole to <planet>.
Escort a Kor Efret ship to <planet>, to show them how Wanderer farming worlds are run.
The Kor Efret are awed by the treetop villages, the towering buildings, and the bustling spaceport here on <origin>. But what moves them most deeply is the wild forests and mountains outside the city. After being led there by some of the local Wanderer leaders, they stand for half an hour just watching the trees swaying in the wind and the birds circling overhead. A few of them make a strange barking, keening noise, and Rek tells you they are weeping: mourning the fact that few places this beautiful and unspoiled are left on their own worlds.
	The Korath are eager to see more places of natural beauty like this one, and the Wanderer leaders suggest that they travel to <planet> next, to see how the Wanderers have built farms that will produce rich crops year after year without depleting the soil.
Escort a Kor Efret ship to <planet>, where the Wanderers are battling the Unfettered.
The Korath are very interested to see how the farms here work. "We are trying to learn to do this on our worlds," one of them explains, "but there has been blight, and drought, and crops that fail for reasons we do not even understand." The Wanderer scientists here do their best to explain how they keep the crops and the soil healthy, with Rek working hard to translate their technical jargon into terms that the Korath can understand.
	When they have completed their tour, Rek says to you in your own language, "<first>, I think we should show them <planet> next. We should show them the war with the Unfettered. If they see that we are few in number, embattled, with only a handful of worlds, they will feel less threatened by us."
	"That sounds like a good idea."
	"What if seeing you as less of a threat emboldens them to attack you?"
	Rek says, "We are still more numerous and more advanced. And besides, wars are started by fear as often as they are started by aggression."
	You agree to escort the Korath ship to <planet>. Hopefully they won't be blown to bits by an Unfettered fleet; that would be quite a diplomatic disaster.
Escort the Kor Efret ship back through the Eye to <planet>.
The Korath ship lands safely on <origin>. Rek explains to the Korath that the entire Wanderer territory was once controlled by the Hai, but that the Hai ruined these worlds and abandoned them. She tells them that now that the Wanderers have completed their work of healing these worlds, they are returning them to the Hai.
	It's a somewhat slanted story, and the Korath are dubious. "If you have done them this great favor," one of them asks, "why are they attacking you?"
	Rek explains that the Hai wanted these worlds back before the Wanderers were ready to give them back, and the same Korath says, "So, if we allow you to spread to our worlds, you will return them to us not when we ask you to, but when you decide you are done?"
	Rek tries to assure them that in their own territory, they will be working and living side by side with the Wanderers, in joint control of their worlds. It's not clear if they believe her. "We have seen enough," says the same Korath. "We will return to our world now." You agree to escort them back through the Eye and to make sure they reach <planet> safely.
Return to <planet> with Rek's report from the Kor Efret diplomatic tour.
You have escorted the Korath world-ship safely back to their home. Hopefully what they saw on their journey will make them more eager to be friends with the Wanderers, rather than less. Rek hands you a written report that she says is an account of the diplomatic mission and says, "Please deliver this to Sobari Tele'ek on <planet>."
	"Okay, I'll do that."
	"Do you think the mission was a success?"
	"I hope so," she says. "The true test will be how we treat the Kor Efreti in the days to come. Clearly it will take some effort to earn their trust."
	You return to your ship, and get ready to travel to <planet>.
Scan Sestor Planets
Scan all the habitable planets in Sestor space to attempt to find where the control center for the automata is located.
You will need <capacity> to take on the next mission.
The Wanderers are eager to hear the results of your diplomatic mission, and whatever is in Rek's report seems to encourage them. Tele'ek says, "If we can [deal with, neutralize] the Kor Sestor drones as well, all of Korath space will be [open, available] for us and for the Korath survivors. Then there will be no more [barriers, impediments] to peace."
	"If you combined your fleet with the Kor Mereti, you could destroy the Kor Sestor drones outright."
	"If the Sestor drones are being controlled remotely, we should try to find the control station and take it over, or destroy it."
	"With great [destruction, loss] of life," says Tema'a Iriket. "That is not [acceptable, moral]. We should seek a more [subtle, elegant] solution."
	After some discussion, the Wanderers agree that the best way to deal with the Sestor drones is to try to figure out where their control center is. "Their communications are [untraceable, undetectable]," says Tele'ek, "but surely the [control center, communications hub] will be well defended. So by [hunting, searching] for a well defended [site, installation] we may find it."
	Iriket says, "I can supply Captain <last> with [surveying?] scanners and [ground-penetrating radar?] from the terraforming team. Such a [facility, installation] might well be deep underground."
	The Wanderers begin loading the scanning equipment onto your ship, and ask you to land on each of the planets in Kor Sestor space to collect measurements. "Bring the [data, results] back to us to be analyzed," says Iriket.
That was the last of the Kor Sestor planets that the Wanderers asked you to scan. Time to return to <planet> with the data.
<planet> is under attack by a Kor Sestor fleet. Drive them off, then return to the planet to figure out what to do next.
A few hours after you present the scanning data to the scientists, you are called into a meeting with the Wanderer leaders. "We may have found the [facility, center]," says, Tele'ek, "but we are not [certain, confident]. There is indeed an underground [bunker, fortress] on one of the planets, but it must have been [damaged, overrun] in the course of their war." He calls up a holographic display of the facility, showing that one section of it has been breached, and a tunnel leads from there to the surface.
	"You're probably right that they wouldn't have kept using the facility once it had been breached."
	"Is there any sign that they tried to rebuild it after the damage? Or that it's still in use?"
	Iriket walks up closer to the display to look on it. She adjusts some controls, and an overlay shows up in another color. "The Kor Efret said their [civil war, cultural collapse] ended a century ago, yes?" she asks. You nod. She walks around the display, examining it carefully, then says, "These [cracks, fractures] in the [bedrock?] have not yet been [infiltrated, saturated] with ground water. This damage is not a century old. It is from at most one [month?] ago."
	"Could it be that whoever was living down there decided to give up and return to the surface?"
	"Does that mean that someone else captured the facility before we could?"
	Suddenly, you hear the noise of alarm sirens from the spaceport, and a messenger comes bursting into the room, his talons screeching across the floor as he skids to a stop. "Sestor drones!" he says. "[Enormous, overwhelming] fleet. Need all [defenders, fighters] immediately."
	You return to your ship and quickly fire up the engines...
There is indeed a Kor Sestor fleet here, but it is nowhere near as large as the messenger indicated. Either the messenger was exaggerating, or some of the fleet has already fled.
There are still Kor Sestor ships overhead. You should take off and rejoin the battle.
	There used to be a thriving spaceport here, but it has been razed to the ground by the Kor Sestor fleet.
Find the Sestor fleet
A large Kor Sestor fleet passed through the wormhole to Wanderer space. Figure out where they went and what they are doing there.
You return to the planet expecting the Wanderers to be celebrating their victory, but the leaders have grim news. "The drones we fought were only the [rearguard? remnant?] of the fleet," says Tele'ek. "Dozens of [capital ships?] passed through this system and continued on. With this [heading, destination]." On the holographic projector, he brings up a star map, and points to the system where the Eye is. The wormhole leading back to Wanderer space.
	Tele'ek says, "Every ship we can spare must [pursue, follow] the Sestor drones through the Eye, and hope that we [locate, track down] the drones before they can cause [harm, destruction] to our people." You should probably join them.
You've returned to <planet>, but you haven't yet found out where the Sestor fleet has gone. Keep searching for it; it's dangerous letting such a powerful hostile fleet roam free.
A major battle was fought here. The burned-out hulks of several Wanderer ships are floating around in space, along with a handful of disabled Kor Sestor ships. Meanwhile, Wanderer ships are engaged in some sort of rescue or evacuation process on the surface of Varu K'prai. But there is no sign of the bulk of the Kor Sestor fleet.
Quite a few Kor Sestor ships are in orbit around the anarchist world of Zenith, and you detect many more on the surface. Strangely, the Kor Sestor ships are not attacking the local pirate and anarchist fleets.
	That is probably not a good sign.
Everyone in the spaceport on Vara K'chrai is still in a panic from watching the Kor Sestor fleet fly through their system, but fortunately the drones did not attack the planet. In fact, they did not even fire on the Wanderer ships that were in orbit at the time. The Wanderer defenders, not wanting to provoke a fight with a fleet they could probably not defeat, did not attack either. So, the Kor Sestor fleet passed peacefully through this system and continued on to... wherever it is going. No one here has any idea yet what the fleet's destination was.
The defenders on <planet> have heard of the Kor Sestor incursion into Wanderer space, but they tell you that the fleet did not pass through this system. And here, they are clearly too worried about the Unfettered threat to be able to think about fighting a war on a second front at the same time.
The entire spaceport on <planet> has been razed to the ground. Teams of Wanderers are sifting through the rubble to recover the bodies of those who were killed here. Apparently the Kor Sestor fleet destroyed the spaceport and every Wanderer ship it found in this system, and then occupied the system for several days, destroying or driving away any scout ships that entered the system.
	The Wanderers don't know what happened next, but the drones are no longer here. Perhaps they have moved beyond Wanderer space.
As you bring your ship in for landing at an empty pad, you notice the captain of an adjacent Behemoth inspecting his ship, which is raked with projectile punctures.
	(Approach the captain and try to find out what happened.)
	You get a better view of the Behemoth - the Heart of Gold, as indicated on the ship's stern - as you walk up to it. The rear of the ship is badly hammered, and black scorch marks streak forward across the hull. You can't help but notice that at several projectile entry points along the hull, the metal is bent smoothly inwards, almost as if the penetrator seared or melted its way through the ship's armor. The captain of the Behemoth looks up from his inspection. Seeing you, he says, "We were lucky to get out of that one alive!"
	"How did your ship end up in such a state?"
	"Was this beauty the victim of a pirate attack?"
	"I'm not quite sure," the captain says. "We were shot at by a fleet of hostile ships that our computer couldn't identify. They didn't look at all like a run-of-the-mill pirate ship, though, and they were kitted out with tech I've never seen before."
	"How many ships were there? What did they look like?"
	"Where did this fight take place?"
	"You should be glad you're still in one piece."
	"Well," the pilot says, "we had hired a beefy Leviathan escort to Farpoint. When we were going in for landing, two of these hostile ships jumped in from the northwest, the direction of all the anarchist colonies in this area. The ships weren't big, but they were tough: our four Heavy Laser Turrets weren't enough to produce even a dent in their shields. They made short work of the Leviathan, and nearly disabled our ship, too. It was lucky I decided that jumping would be faster than landing. We warped out of the system while in atmosphere, saving the ship, but now I'm in debt to all my crew because I couldn't meet a rush delivery deadline. Still had to deliver the goods, but lost a pretty substantial bonus."
	"You're lucky as hell to be here today."
	"Thanks for the information. I think that these hostile ships are the ones I'm looking for."
	"Well," the pilot says, "we were on a deadline to do a large cargo run to Farpoint, when two of these hostile ships jumped in from the northwest, the direction of all the anarchist colonies in this area. I had to jump the ship in atmosphere to stop us from getting shredded by their strange melting weaponry. I immediately reported the attack to a desk clerk at the Navy base in the neighboring system Saiph, but their servers show no logs of any unidentified ships beyond Farpoint, so I guess they turned around after scouting out the Alnitak system. Just my luck to be in the system the moment those things entered, too, because I missed the delivery deadline. Still had to deliver the goods, but lost a pretty substantial bonus."
	"Thanks for the information. I think that these hostile ships are the ones I'm hunting."
	"I am! The attacking ships weren't big, but they were tough: our four Heavy Laser Turrets couldn't even produce a dent in their shields," the captain says. "We even hired a beefy Leviathan to protect us from the pirate raids as we traveled to Farpoint, but when these hostile ships jumped in from the northwest, they made short work of our escort and nearly disabled our ship, too. I had to jump out of the system while in atmosphere to save the ship, but now I'm in debt to all my crew because I didn't meet a rush delivery deadline. Still had to deliver the goods, but lost a pretty substantial bonus."
	"You really are lucky as hell to be here today."
	"No problem, kiddo," the captain says, although he looks awed that you are even attempting to fight such powerful ships. "Remember, northwest of Farpoint. If they're anarchists of any sort, they'll be hiding in one of those pirate systems up there. Take care of yourself out there; those are some dangerous ships that jumped us." With that, he bids you farewell.
	"Yeah, those ships would have obliterated us if we hadn't jumped pronto." The pilot looks at you, then asks quizzically, "Say, do you know anything about those ships?"
	"Yeah, those were Korath ships that attacked you."
	"Maybe. I have a feeling that they're the alien ships that I'm hunting."
	"I don't want to jump to any conclusions."
	"Aliens?" The pilot's face reddens, and his eyes narrow in anger. "Like those detestable squirrels, you mean? Told me they were peaceful, but when I went further north, I nearly had my ship torn to pieces!" You try to tell him that the Hai are a separate species from the Korath, but he clearly does not want to hear any more, so you decide to bring the conversation to an end.
	The pilot seems disappointed in your response, so you decide to bring the conversation to an end.
	"Thank you for your time," you say to the captain.
	The pilot sobers up again, and says, "No problem. Remember, northwest of Farpoint. If they're anarchists of any sort, they'll be hiding in one of those pirate systems up there. Take care of yourself out there; those were dangerous ships we faced." With that, he bids you farewell.
Warn Admiral Danforth
Meet with Admiral Danforth on <planet> as soon as possible, to warn him of the possible threat from the Kor Sestor fleet.
You've located the Kor Sestor fleet, in the Alnilam system. The Republic Navy is probably ill-equipped to fight such powerful alien ships, but they may be the only thing standing in the way of an outright invasion of human space. You should warn Admiral Danforth and the Oathkeepers of the impending threat as soon as possible.
Farpoint is under attack by a Kor Sestor fleet. Drive them off, then return to the planet to speak with Admiral Danforth.
As you are coming in for a landing, you contact Admiral Danforth and ask to speak with him as soon as possible. He meets you at the landing pad and invites you back to his office, where you explain about the large Kor Sestor fleet that is now gathering to the north of here. He tells you, "For the past several months, Intelligence has been tracking a hidden Alpha base on Zenith and making plans to trap and exterminate them. And now you tell me that Zenith is being guarded by Korath drones. It seems unlikely to be a coincidence."
	"Could the Kor Sestor have made some sort of deal with the Alphas?"
	"Maybe the Alphas gained control of the Kor Sestor fleet somehow?"
	"That would assume that some of the Korath who controlled the Sestor fleet are still alive," he says. "Is there evidence that that is the case?"
	You tell him about the underground bunker that the Wanderers discovered, and the signs that someone either recently departed from it, or recently infiltrated it from the surface. He says, "We already know that a group of Alphas was active in that region of space. You and I fought them there just recently, and failed to capture them. I bet that after they fled, they somehow gained access to the Kor Sestor bunker and took over control of the drone fleets."
	It is not particularly surprising when, a few seconds after he says that, an alarm siren begins to sound...
There are still Sestor warships overhead. You should take off again and assist in the fight.
The Kor Sestor fleet has been driven off. Time to land and see what Danforth thinks you should do next.
Ask the Quarg for help
Admiral Danforth asked you to visit <planet> and ask the Quarg if they can provide any ships to help you fight off the Kor Sestor fleet (now presumably under Alpha control).
Admiral Danforth looks like he is still in shock from the carnage and loss of life in the battle that you just fought. "Please tell me that that was the entire drone fleet," he says.
	Sadly, you shake your head. "They have dozens of capital ships," you say. "That was probably just the vanguard of their fleet."
	Danforth sighs. "I got a taste of how powerful these Korath ships are during our attack on the previous Alpha base," he says. "I'm not sure I can stand up against a whole fleet of them. Our only hope may be the Quarg. They have a ringworld in Hai space. In fact, isn't that where we left your friend Elias?" You nod. "You should go there immediately," says Danforth. "Hopefully, you will be able to bring back help in time."
Return to <planet> with this small fleet of Quarg ships.
You will need <capacity> to carry supplies back to Farpoint.
As you are coming in for a landing, you contact the Quarg and discover that Elias Hanover is indeed still living here. He meets you the moment you dock with the station, and you describe the situation. "This must be retaliation," he says. "They want to wipe Danforth and the Oathkeepers off the map to get revenge for him driving them out of their base on Avalon."
	He leaves to try to find help, and returns about fifteen minutes later. "I've got four Quarg ships who volunteered to help," he says. "That may not seem like a lot, but their ships pack quite a punch. And, they've offered some medical supplies as well, which they'll load onto your ship. Good luck, captain."
	You thank him for his assistance, and hurry to fire up your ship and return to human space. Hopefully Danforth's base has not already been overrun in your absence.
You've reached <planet>, but you've either left one of the Quarg warships behind, or your escort carrying the medical supplies from Elias hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Deliver device to Zenith
Admiral Danforth asked you to drop this device (presumably a bomb) above the Alpha base on <destination>.
Danforth is still alive, and still holding out against the Alpha-controlled drones. After directing several recruits to unload the medical supplies, he tells you, "The Alpha base we've been watching on <planet> is buried deep underground. I'm hoping that the Alphas either don't know we're aware of their base's location, or have chosen to remain there anyway because it is so well defended. If the drones are being controlled from there, taking out the base might deactivate the drones."
	"Do you think your troops could capture the base?"
	"Do you have a plan for destroying the Alphas?"
	Danforth says, "The base is several kilometers underground. Before it was guarded by Sestor drones, we had a chance. We could have landed dozens of troop transports and fought our way inside, albeit with heavy losses. But now, I doubt our troops could even make it to the surface."
	As he is speaking, two Navy officers approach your ship with a hover-cart carrying something that looks a little bit like a retrofitted Typhoon Torpedo. They salute Danforth, and he tells them, "Put it aboard Captain <last>'s ship." Then he turns to you. "I'm going to give you the coordinates of the Alpha base," he says. "It's on the polar continent, deep under the ice. Fortunately there are no other human settlements nearby."
	He pauses, as if to resign himself to what he is about to command you to do, and then says, "Land on the planet, drop this device at the coordinates, and then get the hell out of there. You'll have fifteen seconds after you deploy the device to get at least a thousand kilometers away."
	"Wait, is this a nuke? I thought the Navy was too principled to use them."
	"Okay, I'll do what you say."
	"Just drop the damn thing and get out of there, fast," he says. Clearly he doesn't want to tell you anything more about the weapon's origin.
	Alarm sirens begin to sound. "Don't wait here to defend us," says Danforth. "Go straight to <planet> and deploy the device. It may be the only way you can save us."
Danforth wasn't joking when he said that the device may be your only chance. There are almost a dozen Sestor capital ships in the system, and countless smaller craft tearing the Navy to shreds.
Even the Quarg warships are having trouble with an opposing fleet this size. Perhaps a more powerful fleet could defeat the automata, but it would be a difficult battle.
You go to push the device out of the airlock, but realize that you left it on one of your escorts. Better depart and wait for it to enter the system.
Danforth notices your ship land as the sky lights up with the explosions of Navy ships. "Did you use the bomb?" he asks. The stress in his voice is palpable. You shake your head. "Then what the hell are you doing here? Get up there and drop the bomb already!"
Against all odds, all the Kor Sestor ships attacking the Oathkeepers have been destroyed. Maybe you won't have to use Danforth's bomb after all.
All of the Kor Sestor ships in this system have been eliminated.
	The settlements here were never more than tenuous villages operating on the brink of starvation as they sought to make a living in this icy wilderness. Now, many of them have collapsed due to massive earthquakes that came after the Oathkeepers had the planet bombed to destroy an Alpha base.
You have destroyed the Alpha base on Zenith. Return to Farpoint and find out if your intervention allowed Danforth to gain the upper hand against the Kor Sestor fleet.
You shove Danforth's device out the airlock at the coordinates he gave you, and immediately fire your ship's repulsors full blast to take you back up into orbit...
The way Danforth talked about the device he gave you made you assume that it was a nuclear bomb, but the explosion that rocks <origin> a few seconds after you depart is far too powerful for that. The light of the explosion is many times brighter than this system's sun. And unless your sensors are lying to you, there is now a crater near <origin>'s south pole that goes all the way down to the mantle. Lava is filling the hole, and the entire planet's crust is shifting and shivering in response.
	You are glad that no human settlements were near the explosion, but your sensors are picking up compression waves traveling along the whole planet's surface, bouncing across it again and again as the planet rings like a bell. Anyone who lived anywhere on <origin> just got hit by an earthquake of deadly proportions.
	You can only hope that it was worth it, and that the control station has indeed been destroyed.
Destroy Kor Sestor drones
When you destroyed the Alpha base, the Kor Sestor drones began acting independently. They are now attacking human space. Help the Navy destroy the drones, then return to <planet>.
The base on <planet> appears to have survived the attack, despite the Kor Sestor drones that were overhead. You meet with Danforth and tell him that you destroyed the Alpha base using the weapon he gave you.
	He says, "When you destroyed the base, the Sestor drones suddenly stopped acting as a unified fleet. A few stayed here, but most of them have spread throughout this sector of space, and we are receiving reports that they are attacking Navy and civilian ships indiscriminately. My own fleet is too damaged to do anything to stop them, but other Navy bases are sending in reinforcements. Can you join them to help eliminate the drones?"
	"Of course, I would be glad to."
	"Of course. But first, what the hell was that bomb you had me drop on Zenith? It cracked the whole planet open."
	Danforth sighs. "Unfortunately," he says, "I am not permitted to tell you what that weapon was or how we acquired it. And already news agencies throughout the Republic are questioning our use of such a terrible weapon. I wish we had been able to defeat the Kor Sestor fleet without resorting to such extreme measures, but we had no choice."
	Danforth gives you a map of the systems where there have been reports of Kor Sestor drones attacking civilian ships. "These, plus any that were left alive in the Alnilam system, are all the automata that we have been able to track," he says. "Report back here once you have succeeded in completely destroying them. We can't risk letting some local warlord capture them. The Navy will hopefully send some ships to help you."
You check in with Danforth, but he tells you that there are still reports of Kor Sestor drones in human space. "You'll have to be sure to destroy them completely," he says. "We can't risk letting some local warlord capture them."
Drones in Alnilam
Eliminate the remaining Kor Sestor fleet in the Alnilam system.
When you return to <planet>, Danforth tells you, "It seems that you have dealt with the last of the Kor Sestor drones that were terrorizing Republic space, but we still need to deal with the fleet in the Alnilam system. Do you think you can destroy that fleet on your own?"
	"Yes, I think I can manage it."
	"Are any of your ships repaired yet? I could use some assistance."
	He agrees to send some Oathkeeper ships with you to destroy the remaining drones, but it is clear that it pains him to risk the last few ships he has that are still spaceworthy.
You've returned to <planet>, but not all of the Sestor ships in Alnilam have been defeated yet. Return to the system and make sure they are all destroyed.
The Kor Sestor drones in human space have been eliminated. Return to <planet> in Wanderer space to find out what is happening there.
Danforth breathes a sigh of relief when you tell him that the last of the Kor Sestor drones have been destroyed. "I am grateful for your help, Captain <last>," he says. "And now that we have finished with that battle, the public relations nightmare over what we did to Zenith begins. We don't need you to get involved in that, though; perhaps you should return to Wanderer space until things cool down a bit around here."
Destroy remaining drones
Rather than bombing Zenith, destroy any Kor Sestor drones that are left over in the Alnilam system, then report back to Admiral Danforth on Farpoint.
Danforth is impressed that you were able to eliminate the attacking Kor Sestor fleet. "The weapon I gave you was a last resort, and one that I would be ashamed to use," he says. "I have no ships to give you until we have had time to make repairs, but if you are able to destroy whatever Kor Sestor ships remain in the Alnilam system on your own, return here and I will send my troop transports with you to destroy the Alpha base the old-fashioned way."
Attack Alpha base
Travel to the <system> system with these Oathkeeper Cruisers to eliminate the Alpha base on <planet>.
You tell Danforth that you have destroyed the entire Kor Sestor fleet, without needing to bomb <planet>. He is impressed, and grateful. "I'll send some troop transports with you to take out the Alpha base," he says. "It is riskier destroying it this way, but at least the civilians on <planet> will not be harmed."
	"Understood. We'll go directly to <planet>."
	"The anarchist settlers, you mean? You're willing to lose your own troops just to avoid harming the anarchists and pirates by bombing their planet?"
	Danforth says, "If we had used such a terrible weapon on an inhabited planet, even an anarchist one, it would have sullied the good name of the Navy. Compared to that, the loss of a few Navy lives is acceptable, and the troops who volunteered for this mission are willing to risk their lives for that cause."
	You return to your ship and prepare to escort the troop transports to <planet>.
You've reached <planet>, but not all of the Navy Cruisers have entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for them to arrive, because there's no way you're going to assault the Alpha base without them.
Escort the Oathkeeper Cruisers back to <destination>.
Danforth's troops set up a defensive circle around the entrance to the Alpha base. It appears that they have achieved the element of surprise: the Alphas did not know that the Navy had already located their base, and were probably counting on having a longer time to evacuate. The troop transports were carrying concrete mixers and mining drills; apparently their plan is to seal the Alphas underground and then drill down through the ice and bedrock to bomb and collapse the bunker.
	As the Navy troops begin pouring the concrete, the massive gate to the tunnel bursts open and more Alphas than you have ever seen in one place come flooding out, several dozen of them. But even these superhuman soldiers cannot survive the concentrated firepower of hundreds of Navy troops. The air fills with explosions and smoke and powdered snow, but as far as you can tell not one of the Alphas escapes alive.
	When the battle is over, the Navy troops explore the bunker, hoping to find prisoners, but they find no one alive. They seal up the entrance and collapse the bunker, and prepare to travel back with you to <planet>.
You've reached <planet>, but not all of the Navy Cruisers have entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for them to arrive.
The Navy officers report the results of the battle on Zenith's surface to Danforth. "So it's over," he says. "Captain <last>, thank you for your assistance. This battle would have gone very differently if you were not here."
	Now that the Kor Sestor fleet has been dealt with, you should probably return and see how things are going for the Wanderers in Korath space.
Scan remaining drones
Scan the remaining Kor Sestor drones in a few of their systems, to collect data for the Wanderers to use to determine how quickly they are still being produced.
You fire up your ship's sensors and log the identification numbers and markings of the Kor Sestor ships in this system.
You are pleased to discover that the Wanderer colony here has grown into a small city; about a hundred thousand Wanderers have already come through the Eye to settle here. Sobari Tele'ek meets you in the spaceport. He has lost half of his feathers - his whole face is bare and scaly - but rather than wasting away like Rek he has gained considerable weight, and now towers over you.
	He tells you, "Our Mereti [friends, kinsfolk] tell us that the Kor Sestor have become less [aggressive, warlike] of late. The factories on their worlds are still [producing, churning out] drones, but they no longer act with a [unified will? purpose?]."
	"Do you think they are weakened enough that we can destroy them?"
	"Do you think there is any way we could regain control of them?"
	"Probably," he says, "but we would prefer a more [elegant, peaceful] solution if possible. Would you be willing to [visit, observe] their star systems again, and collect [data, measurements] that might help us to learn to control them or shut them down?"
	"That is our [hope, desire]," he says. "Or, barring that, at least we may [disable, shut down] the factories. Would you be willing to [visit, observe] their star systems again, and collect [data, measurements] on the drones?"
	"What about the Kor Mereti drones? Have they remained peaceful?"
	"Indeed," he says. "And, they have brought much [entertainment? novelty?] to us. You should [visit, call on] them when you have time; they are very fond of you."
	Tele'ek introduces you to the team of scientists who will tackle the problem of shutting down the Kor Sestor factories. They explain to you that they are looking for any identifying information on the drones, including the alloy composition of their hulls and prevalence of blast marks or other signs of age. That will allow them to estimate how quickly the drones are being produced.
Pick up Rek
Pick up Rek on <planet>. She will be helping you to attempt to open diplomatic negotiations with the Korath exiles.
You give your scanner logs to the Wanderer scientists. A few hours later, you are called in to a meeting of the leaders. Sobari Tele'ek tells you, "Our scientists noted that the most recently constructed drones all have very similar [alloy composition?] and identification numbers. We suspect that means that they are all being produced on a single world, perhaps even a single [factory, facility]."
	He pulls up a star map and says, "Based on your previous geological scans, we [believe, deduce] that the factory is on this world, Sestor Ikfar. It would be easy enough to [destroy, eliminate] the facility, but Tema'a Iriket has a different proposal."
	Iriket stands up and says, "I propose that we use this as an [excuse, justification] for a visit to the Korath [exiles, outcasts]. We offer them the chance to [help, assist] us in ending the [scourge, plague] that they started. By [allying with, fighting alongside] us, they will come to view us as [friends, coworkers]."
	"Why get them involved if you think you can handle this on your own?"
	"Wait, you want to ask them for help just so they can feel good about themselves?"
	"That does sound like a good way to solve two problems at the same time."
	Tele'ek says, "The exiles must [feel, be aware of] their loss of [agency? significance?] in the galaxy. If we [plant, instill] a sense of purpose and [worth, importance] in them, they may become [peaceful, wise] just as the Kor Mereti collective did."
	Tele'ek says, "Nothing [forges, solidifies] a friendship as quickly as fighting a [common foe?]. And, we [feel, perceive, project] that the reason the exiles engage in [raiding, piracy] is that their society has no greater [purpose, goal] than mere survival. By involving them in the [restoration, healing] of their lands, we will give them [agency? significance?] and they will be free to be [peaceful, wise]."
	After more discussion the Wanderer leaders reach a consensus that they would like you to travel with Rek to the territory of the Korath exiles and seek to make contact with them. It seems like a very optimistic plan, but then again, the Wanderer approach of seeking friendship worked quite well with the Mereti drones.
Contact the exiles
Enter the territory of the Korath exiles. Do not fire on them. Instead, with Rek's help, try to find a way to speak with them or a place where they will meet with you.
Surprisingly, Rek is less enthusiastic about the diplomatic plan than the other Wanderer leaders were. "Of course I greatly desire to make contact with the exiles," she says, "but it is not safe to assume that the minds of an alien species works the same as our own. These Korath were exiled due to their endless, fruitless war-making. I'm not sure an offer of friendship and a small ego boost is all they need to make them become peaceful."
	"Do you think we should cancel the mission and just deal with the Sestor ourselves?"
	"Perhaps not, but isn't it better to try for peace while we have the chance?"
	"No," says Rek, "the leaders are right, we must offer them our trust until they prove utterly unworthy of it. But you should not be surprised if they are more interested in destroying you than in listening to me."
	"It is not only better," says Rek, "it is a moral imperative. Our first interaction with the exiles must be an offer of trust, not an act of war. But you should not be surprised if they are more interested in destroying you than in listening to me."
	Rek makes herself comfortable in one of your bunk rooms, and you prepare for a visit to the territory of the Korath exiles. "We must somehow earn their trust," she says, "so do not fire on any of their ships. Instead we must find a way to communicate with them or a place where they will meet with us peacefully."
You've returned to <planet>, but you haven't yet made contact with the Korath exiles. Travel to the core of the galaxy and look for a way to make contact with them.
Diplomacy with the exiles
Escort these three Korath exile world-ships to <planet> for a diplomatic meeting with the Wanderers.
The Korath ships tail you to the planet's surface, but they do not fire on you. Instead, they hover above your ship for a long, indecisive moment. You hold your fire, and they eventually land in the sand next to you. Their airlocks open, and a few of them step out and approach your ship. They do not appear to be armed. Perhaps they have a cultural taboo against using weapons on this world.
	(Go outside to meet them.)
	(Leave the planet while I still can.)
	The Korath seem surprised when you and Rek, two members of obviously different species, step off your ship side by side. They mutter quietly amongst themselves as you approach, then nearly jump in surprise when Rek addresses them in their own language.
	They converse with Rek for a while, and then Rek explains, "I told them that we hope to eliminate the infection of self-replicating war machines that they left behind, and make their territory safe for habitation once more. They say they are glad we have not destroyed the drones, because they are proud of their handiwork. They say they have command codes for the Sestor factories, to shut them down. But, they will not give the codes to us; they must go and enter them in person."
	"That sounds reasonable."
	"What are they asking for in return?"
	Rek says, "They request a meeting with our leaders, to work out terms of trade for our mutual benefit. It is something we would certainly agree to with no difficulty."
	Rek speaks with the Korath again, and then tells you, "They say that three of their 'world-ships' will travel with us to meet with the Wanderer leaders. If they are able to work out favorable terms, and are convinced that the Wanderers have peaceful intentions, they will go with us to the Sestor factory world and shut it down."
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you've left one of the Korath ships behind, or your escort carrying Rek hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Shut down the factory
Escort these Korath ships to <planet>, where they will shut down the remaining Kor Sestor factories.
Rek brings the Korath to meet with the Wanderer leaders. After the meeting ends, she and Tele'ek meet up with you. "That was a strange meeting," says Rek. "It did not feel like a peace summit, but like a child's play at a peace summit, as if negotiating for peace is a skill they are only just beginning to learn. And the terms they asked for were minimal; I would have preferred to offer them far more. But they are taking steps toward becoming a peaceful society, and for that we can be grateful."
	"Are you sure that they really want peace? They aren't trying to trick you?"
	Rek says, "It is hard to be sure. Their culture is very different from the Kor Efret; even some of their language and gestures are new to me. But they have behaved peacefully toward us so far; we must hope that their peacefulness continues."
	Tele'ek says, "You must bring the [exile, outcast] ships to <planet> and keep them from being destroyed by the drones [along the way?]. There, they will [attempt, accomplish] what they have promised, and shut down the factories. Your only role will be to [shield, protect] them, and we will give you some of our warships to [assist, accompany] you." He gestures with a wing towards a number of Wanderer vessels being loaded with supplies and prepared for battle. You notice a type of weapon you don't recognize mounted on some of them.
	"Are those ships carrying a new type of weapon?"
	"Sounds like a good plan. Let's get going!"
	Tele'ek seems pleased that you noticed. "Indeed. They are more [useful, effective] against hull armor than shields, [perfect, appropriate] for use against the Kor Sestor vessels alongside our [existing, previous] armaments." He pauses before continuing. "[Hopefully, If this goes well], they will not get much use, but will see you [safely, successfully] through this [mission, task] to finally end this [blight, menace]. However, we will have them [ready, prepared] if the need does [arise, return]."
	"Can I get some for my own ship?"
	"Is it a good idea to show off these new weapons to the Korath Exiles when making overtures of friendship?"
	"I look forward to seeing them in action. I should get my ship ready for to go."
	Tele'ek gestures towards Rek who says, "I raised a similar concern, but in this case, I [recognize, accept] that the benefit outweighs possible risks."
	Tele'ek explains, "If they view these weapons as signs of [aggression?] against themselves, there is little I can do for them. Their ships are not as [durable, well-armored] as the Kor Sestor automata, so our other technologies would already be [effective, damaging] enough if used against them. If they are [rational, intelligent], they will value the added protection on this [journey, endeavor]."
	"We have not yet produced many, but they will be [available, present] in our outfitters soon."
	You and Rek say goodbye to Tele'ek before returning to your ship, and preparing it for the trip to <planet>.
Drive off the Kor Sestor drones and keep them from interfering with the Korath exiles who are shutting down their factories.
There are still Kor Sestor drones overhead. You should go fight them off so the Korath exiles are not attacked while trying to disable the factories.
The drones stop firing on the Korath ships the moment they enter the atmosphere, which is a good sign - it probably means that their command codes worked. While they begin scouting out the manufacturing center, the exiles tell you (through Rek) that they need you to return to orbit and keep the remaining drones from attacking them until they can be sure the factory is shut down for good; it might take them a while to accomplish that.
	You fire up your engines and blast off for one last battle against the Kor Sestor...
Return to <planet> and report to the Wanderers that the exiles have shut down the Kor Sestor factory (and possibly stolen the equipment in the process).
As you come in for a landing, the Korath exiles inform you that they have succeeded in disabling the factories. They tell you that they will be returning to their territory on their own; now that their job is done, they no longer need you to "chaperone" them, as Rek translates it. You wish them luck, and they depart.
	The factory district does indeed seem to have been shut down: no more hum of machinery or flashes of arc-welders or smokestacks belching steam into the atmosphere. In fact, on closer inspection you realize that they did not merely shut down the factories; they have also removed some critical components from them.
	Rek asks, "Does it look like they succeeded?"
	"Yes, the factories are shut down."
	"It looks like they disassembled the factories and took some of the parts with them."
	"Oh," says Rek, "that is slightly ominous. But they are scavengers after all; perhaps they simply did not wish to leave useful machinery to rust."
	With nothing else to do here, you get ready to return to <planet> and report to the Wanderer leaders.
	Due to a recent shift in climate the deserts have begun shrinking once more, with local vegetation growing to cover more and more land each year. The Wanderers, working together with the Kor Efreti, have founded a settlement here and begun working to accelerate the process of rejuvenating the wastelands.
This small settlement is populated by a roughly equal number of Korath and Wanderer settlers. Since most of them do not speak each other's language, the two groups do not mingle much, and communicate mostly via gestures and drawings. It's not much, but it's at least a start for the two species to begin learning from each other.
Investigate the exiles
Visit the Korath exile territory to look for any signs that they plan to start constructing war drones of their own.
There are several Kor Mereti and Kor Sestor drones in this system, and they don't look friendly. You should report to the Wanderers that the exiles have begun manufacturing drones of their own.
When you meet with the Wanderer leaders, Sobari Tele'ek tells you, "We have received word from our [scouts, observers] that the Sestor drones are [dwindling, reducing] in numbers and will soon be no more. We owe you our [gratitude, thanks]. But, the Mereti tell us a more worrisome [tale, story]."
	Meto Pa'aret says, "The Mereti [contacted, communicated with] me and said that one of their stations was [raided, infiltrated] by the Korath exiles, and some of their [machinery, equipment] was stolen. The Mereti did not [fight, attack] the exiles because they thought they were [friends, allies]. Captain <last>, can you bring Rek to visit the [exiles, outcasts] and learn what their plans are?"
	"Could the stolen equipment make it possible for them to build a drone fleet of their own?"
	"That is what we are afraid of," says Tele'ek. You agree to travel to the territory of the exiles and see if there is any evidence that they are building war drones there.
After the Eye opened, creating a wormhole link between Wanderer territory and the region of space that harbors the devastated Korath worlds, the Wanderers have established several new colonies in the Korath sector and have begun to migrate to this area of Space. They have established formal relations with the Kor Efreti and were able to end the war between the Kor Mereti and the Kor Sestor.
The Wanderers, who have begun to establish colonies on some deserted Korath systems, were able to end the war between the Kor Mereti and the Kor Sestor. The Kor Efreti have begun to rebuild their worlds and are tutored in this endeavor by the Wanderers.
You inform the Wanderers that the Korath exiles are now producing war drones. "This is [unfortunate, regrettable]," says Sobari Tele'ek. "Clearly they [anticipate, expect] further conflict in the future."
	Tema'a Iriket says, "Perhaps they are [afraid of, threatened by] us and seek only to have the means to [defend, protect] themselves. The important thing is that the drones in this [territory, area] have been [neutralized, pacified] and we can now focus on our true work."
	From there, the conversation shifts to an excited discussion about what worlds they will settle on next and what their next steps should be in building relationships with the Kor Efret and the Kor Mereti collective. The exiles may become a threat some time in the future, but for now the Wanderers are eager to pursue their peacetime calling in this new territory that the Eye has led them to.
The Earth Shaper is a robotic drone that the Wanderers use for mining, exploring, surveying, and terraforming.
Flycatcher drones are used by the Wanderers to keep their star systems safe. Rather than carrying weapons of its own, a stock Flycatcher just carries an anti-missile turret for defending other ships.
The Summer Leaf is mostly used by the Wanderers as a light transport, but it is also quite effective in combat.
The Autumn Leaf is based on the Wanderer Summer Leaf light warship, but slightly larger and better equipped for combat. Unlike Wanderer peacetime ships, it is equipped with a turret mount in addition to the ports for fixed guns.
The Strong Wind was originally designed for science and exploration, but recently the Wanderers have modified the design to allow it to be used as a warship.
In response to the Unfettered invasion, the Wanderers have begun digging up ancient warship designs from their archives and putting them back into production. The Tempest is the first purpose-built warship they have manufactured in tens of thousands of years.
Like a latent gene waiting to express itself, the knowledge of how to wage war in space has been passed down through hundreds of generations of Wanderers. Based on one of their ancient designs, the Derecho has a mixture of agility and raw firepower that is well-suited to their present, rapidly changing situation.
The Hurricane is not built for speed, elegance, or versatility, but for one simple purpose: to be durable enough to serve as a rearguard, absorbing an enemy's attacks for long enough to allow the fleet it is guarding to escape.
This is the first ship the Wanderers have built in millennia that is designed to be operated by a single pilot instead of a crew. They are flown mostly by young warriors eager to prove their mettle by winning individual glory in battle.
The Winter Gale was designed by the Wanderers as a hardier and better-armed alternative to their existing light patrol ships. The Gale's large number of weapon hardpoints makes it flexible enough to reconfigure for facing a wide variety of enemies.
The Deep River is a modular freighter, designed to carry cargo in detachable pods.
This is a Deep River freighter that has been converted into a transport ship for refugees.
The Riptide is a dedicated transport ship meant to replace the temporary Deep River freighters that were converted into transport ships for refugee evacuation. Although not as durable as the Deep River, the Riptide is far more nimble of a ship while at the same time being able to carry more passengers.
Iyik'
Yek'
K'ch'
Rei'
Vek'
Ik'k'
Kach'
Vori'
Sach'
Kri'
cach
esei
Ayek
Vorek
Scha'
Kera'
Tai'
evar
eska
eteka
i'atai
ik'lek
ivar
erei
eyek
urek
'i'ai 
'ak iy 
'urek esek 
 iy 
 esek 
 ek 
 va'
'a iy cha'
akai'
skak
tesk
chik
chu'
yech
i'ai
eleka
achi
u'ei
u'ai
'ei ek 
'elek iy 
'rei 
'ket 
'ret 
'sai 
 sek 
 salek 
reku'
sarka'
cha'
erek
krech
elek
kurei
i'lek
a'uk
echa
'ai.
 eku.
 sat.
'i sek.
'ar.
 kar.
 esek'cha.
This [space, territory] belongs to
You are a guest of
 the Wanderers, the 
[repairers, fixers] 
restorers 
healers 
[shapers, remakers] 
[transformers, renewers] 
revitalizers 
ones who take care 
renewers 
settlers 
friends 
[harmed, abused] 
broken 
[brutalized, mistreated] 
[wasted, spent] 
dead 
[lifeless, barren] 
ruined 
[consumed, devoured] 
exploited 
poisoned 
wrecked 
abandoned 
planets
places
lands
ecosystems
biospheres
You are 
a welcome 
an honored 
[visitor, traveler] 
guest 
[amongst, with] 
the Wanderers
so long as 
as long as 
[providing, given] 
you respect our ways
you respect our worlds
you respect our ecosystems
you show respect for our ways
you show respect for our worlds
you show respect for our ecosystems
you live sustainably
you [consume, devour] no more than you need
you cause no harm
you come in peace
We mean 
We intend 
We plan 
We come 
only to 
simply to 
solely to 
[repair, fix] 
restore 
heal 
[shape, remake] 
[transform, renew] 
revitalize 
take care of 
breathe [life, hope] into 
[cure, remedy] 
what has been 
what others have 
what those who came before have 
[harmed, abused]
broken
[brutalized, mistreated]
[wasted, spent]
killed
rendered [lifeless, barren]
ruined
[consumed, devoured]
exploited
poisoned
wrecked
Wanderer 
Our 
These 
 are open to 
 are available to 
 welcome 
anyone
anybody
any being
any lifeform
any [identity? consciousness? entity?]
, if they are 
, so long as they are 
, as long as they are 
, [providing, given] they are 
willing
wishing
wanting
intending
looking
meaning
planning
 to help 
us to 
[repair, fix]
restore
heal
[shape, remake]
[transform, renew]
revitalize
take care of
breathe [life, hope] into
[cure, remedy]
 them.
[Visitor, Traveler]
Guest
our work is in [danger, peril]
we have been [assaulted, attacked]
we have become [disabled, incapacitated]
We need to be [repaired, fixed]
Assist us
Fight for us
, please
, we beg you
We do not wish to 
We do not want to 
We wish not to 
It gives us no [joy, pleasure] to 
harm you
[end, terminate] you
be [violent, destructive]
but we must 
but we will 
[protect, shepherd] 
preserve 
[space, territory]
[territory, responsibility]
[calling, work]
ways
Your 
actions 
deeds 
crimes 
are 
those of [consumers, devourers]
those of destroyers
those of [murderers, exploiters]
shameless
unforgivable
against nature
You will not 
You shall not 
You cannot be allowed to 
prevail
continue
remain
[Murderers, exploiters] 
have no place 
do not belong 
are not welcome 
here
in our [space, territory]
amongst us
Leave
Begone
Remove yourself
so we may continue our [calling, work]
and we will not pursue you
and we will allow you to live
or we will destroy you
or we will be forced to kill you
or we will be forced to [end, terminate] you
and never return
and learn [wisdom, balance]
It is not too late 
There is still time 
You still have an opportunity 
leave
leave in peace
surrender
desist
make [amends, reparations]
make [amends, reparations] for your crimes
make things right with us
learn [wisdom, balance]
end this violence
end this destruction
put a stop to this
The [leaders, elders] 
were wrong to trust you, 
were mistaken in trusting you, 
should never have welcomed you, 
[alien, outsider]
[murderer, exploiter]
Our people 
Our young ones 
do not deserve this 
should not suffer this 
violence
betrayal
[harm, abuse]
You must 
Please 
stop
stop this
begone
remove yourself
have mercy
Varu K'est is a spare, ancient planet of arid plateaus and deep, meandering canyons, with too little rainfall to support any but the hardiest of shrubs. Before the Unfettered invaded, the only Wanderer settlements remaining here were the military bases they had set up to defend their frontier. Now, it is home to an ever-growing number of Unfettered settlements, including many civilians who have come here just for the chance to live on a world that is not overcrowded and polluted.
The Unfettered are using the few jump drives they have to ferry more and more of their people into Wanderer space. When each wave of ships arrives here in the spaceport, technicians carefully remove the jump drives from all but a few of them. A few well guarded jump-capable ships then carry those spare jump drives back to Unfettered space, where they are used to bring more ships and people.
The Wanderers worked for years to make this desert world bloom: planting hardy shrubs and cacti that eventually transform the sand into a soil that can hold moisture. In some regions, especially closer to the poles, the deserts have given way to dense forests, but near the equator there are still large stretches of dry and barren sand, broken by the occasional belt of green where a narrow river winds between the dunes.
	Now that the Unfettered have taken over control of the planet, it may be only a matter of time before the deserts dominate it once again.
The spaceport is in a forest village near the planet's north pole. The landing pads are massive stone monoliths laid on the ground in a nearby clearing. But aside from a few large warehouses at ground level, the village itself is entirely made of tree-houses. Although they are very different from Hai architecture, the Unfettered seem to be quite at home living in the tree-houses, and have not built many of their own structures yet.
Of all the worlds that the Unfettered have captured, this is surely the one that the Wanderers will miss the most: a heavily forested planet that was once home to countless small villages and even a few cities. The Unfettered are clearly doing their best to tend the farms here, but they operate on a permaculture system that relies heavily on maintaining a delicate ecological balance, rather than on machines and pesticides.
A large number of Unfettered settlers have already arrived here and begun setting up a spaceport village, complete with markets, taverns, and military barracks. To the Unfettered, who have lived their whole lives on worlds where the local ecology is in shambles, this planet must seem like a paradise.
The surface of this world is almost entirely ocean. The Wanderer settlements were built on massive floating algae mats, some of them the size of a small city. Engines are attached to some of these floating villages, allowing them to be slowly propelled from one part of the planet's surface to another, and the only native industries are fishing and seaweed farming.
The raft of algae that supports the spaceport is probably at least a dozen meters thick, but flexible enough that it bends as the ocean swells pass underneath, causing individual buildings to rise up or tilt slightly relative to their neighbors. Now that this world has been captured by the Unfettered, nearly all the buildings are empty; it appears that the Hai are not too fond of the idea of inhabiting a water world, so they are using it mostly as a military base.
	Hidden deep in a canyon, the Wanderers have begun establishing a military base here.
The Wanderers have hollowed out hangars and caves in the soft sandstone walls of this canyon and have begun to build a military base where they can store supplies and repair their ships while trying to decide how best to deal with the new challenges that face them in Korath space.
	Oddly enough, they have also found enough time to plant a large garden on a terrace near the base of the canyon, where they are experimenting to find out which plant species will best grow in this arid environment. The Wanderer drive to understand and transform the local ecology is strong, indeed.
Plumes of soot and ash rise from a cluster of several dozen volcanoes on this planet's main continent, shrouding the planet in a thick layer of clouds and choking out the sunlight. The ruins of several Korath cities and the geometric grids of cleared land surrounding them show that this was once a farming world, but now few plants are able to survive and kilometer-high glaciers have begun creeping down from the poles.
	With some help from the Mereti drones, the Wanderers have set up factories here that are pumping out carbon dioxide and methane to warm the atmosphere. In a few decades, the glaciers may start to recede.
This odd settlement was built half by the Wanderers and half by the Mereti drones. The layout of the streets is completely chaotic, and they have planted rows of trees and bushes everywhere: some inside greenhouses, and some hardier species out in the open air. The settlement is near the equator, but it is still not particularly warm.
All the other worlds belonging to this species have appeared unwilling to let you land, but here you find a slightly warmer welcome. A cloud of small, highly maneuverable patrol ships takes off from the planet as you approach and herds you onto one particular landing pad where, after a few minutes, several of the aliens approach your ship.
	This species is birdlike, but with bodies nearly as large as yours, and with wings that tower above you. They come swooping down from the sky, circle your ship to inspect it, and then land near the hatch and wait for you to open it. They do not appear to be armed, but their talons are eight or nine centimeters long.
	Hesitantly, you open your hatch and greet them. One of the aliens speaks to you: a chirping, clicking noise. You have no idea what it is saying.
	"Hello. I come in peace."
	"My name is <first>. I am glad to meet you."
	The alien leans forward as you speak, as if trying to decipher your words. "Iyik'ka'ak kareek elik, ek karu karai kavet," it says. You shake your head to indicate that you do not understand, and again try to speak to it in your own language. Again it leans forward as if deeply focused on what you are saying.
	The other aliens standing beside it are inspecting you with equal curiosity. Finally, one of them says to the leader, "Ek kalek kiro suk i'hai, sek speru siyek ka'hai esek'ru fer'ek." The leader gestures in response, turning up open palms, and the second alien steps forward and addresses you in an entirely different language, one that does not sound like birdsong at all. In fact, judging by the difficulty it seems to be having in trying to speak it, you suspect that it is the language of a different species entirely. Unfortunately, it is no more comprehensible to you than the bird's own language.
	They make some further attempts to communicate with you, but without success. Eventually they give up and all but the leader leaves. The leader makes a sweeping gesture to the rest of the spaceport, apparently inviting you to explore.
Hai Interpreter?
The aliens north of Hai space seem to speak the Hai language. If you can find one of the Hai who is willing to interpret, perhaps you can communicate with them.
As before, you are ushered to the ground by a flock of the small alien ships, and a few of them fly over to your ship and wait for your to come out and try to talk to them. Also as before, you do not recognize their language and they do not understand yours, although their leader seems to be focused intently on trying to understand you.
	The other aliens standing beside it are inspecting you with equal curiosity. Finally, one of them says to the leader, "Ek kalek kiro suk i'hai, sek speru siyek ka'hai esek'ru fer'ek." The leader gestures in response, turning up open palms, and the second alien steps forward and begins speaking in an entirely different language. After a moment, you are startled to realize that it is speaking the language of the Hai. The difficulty it has producing the sounds lends it a rather coarse accent, but it is almost certainly Hai.
	"Hai, you speak the Hai language?" you ask. You cup your hands above your ears to mimic the large, rodent-like ears of the Hai.
	"Iy, ka'hai!" says the alien, rustling its wings in what you take as a gesture of excitement, "Speru ek ka'hai?" At the same time, though, one of the other aliens takes a step back and flexes its talons at you. It occurs to you that the Hai may or may not be viewed favorably here.
	"Sorry, I don't speak their language."
	"Are there any Hai here?"
	The same alien speaks again, pantomiming your ship flying into the sky and then returning, and then points to your airlock and mimics your rodent-ear gesture for the Hai. You think it is telling you to go find one of the Hai who can serve as an interpreter, and bring them back here.
Your ship is surrounded by the birdlike aliens. When you step onto the planet, one of the aliens seems to recognize you. "Ka'hai?" it seems to ask, once again mimicking the rodent-like ears of the Hai with its feathered limbs. You shake your head, for you have returned without a Hai to act as an interpreter. Maybe it would be wise to actually go to the Hai before returning to see if one will come with you.
The aliens north of Hai space seem to speak the Hai language. Do you want to look for someone here who could serve as an interpreter?
	(No; the other Hai south of here are better suited for this.)
	You search around the spaceport for any sign of a local government. Eventually, one of the Hai approaches you. "You are lost, monkey. What is it that you are looking for?"
	"Do you know where I can talk to an official?"
	"Do you know where I could find an interpreter?"
	"I'm doing fine, thank you."
	The Hai says, "If your reason for talking to our chiefs is worthwhile, then I will take you to them."
	"I'm looking for a Hai interpreter," you say.
	She looks back at you quizzically. "What purpose would an interpreter serve? You can understand my words, can you not?"
	"I need one to talk to the aliens up north from here."
	"I think that I'll be better off finding one of the chiefs on my own."
	The Hai scrunches up her nose. "Foolish monkey. We have already contacted those aliens; we have little use for another emissary."
	"Can you still provide an interpreter, though?"
	"You do not need an interpreter. All you need is to know that those aliens are not worth conversing with."
	The Hai walks away, leaving you to your own devices in the spaceport.
	The Hai scoffs at you. "If you do not seek for help, or seek to help, then you have no place on our worlds." She walks away, and you spend another hour searching the spaceport before giving up and heading back to your ship.
Travel to Hai-home to pick up a diplomat who can help you communicate with the Wanderers.
	You manage to contact the local governor's office, but when you speak with the governor he says, "First contact? Human, this is not a task for just any Hai. You must go to our home world, where an official ambassador can join you. I will contact them and tell them to expect you."
Travel to the Wanderer homeworld with a Hai ambassador who can help communicate with them.
Now that the crisis with humanity is over she has volunteered to serve as a translator and be the Hai diplomat to the Wanderers as a capstone for her career.
As you are approaching Hai-home, you contact the Hai government and inform them that you have found new aliens to the north. You submit a request for ambassadorial assistance to help you communicate with the aliens to the north, who seem to speak the Hai language. They immediately direct you to a now familiar private government hangar, where a familiar diplomat meets you.
	"Good to see you again Captain <last>, I have arranged for some refreshments so please, come and tell me all about these new aliens you have discovered!"
	Her exuberance is catching and after recent stressful events you see a new side to her as you relay your experience with the bird-like aliens. You realize that opportunities like this are why she became a diplomat in the first place and that this is, to some degree, a dream come true.
	"So in conclusion, it seems you need a translator," she says with a wry smile.
	"Indeed, I'm hoping you have someone in mind."
	"It would be great to work with you again if you're willing."
	You open your mouth to respond but the effort is pointless.
	"I accept!" she cries, leaning forward on the desk with a gleeful look in her eyes.
	"A first contact is a dream opportunity, and there are so very few of them. So of course I will come with you."
	"Let's go visit these aliens immediately!"
	"Can a distinguished ambassador such as yourself just leave like that?"
	"What if the humans want our own envoy to these aliens?"
	"Yes," she says. "If these aliens will provide a place for me, I mean to live with them permanently, an ambassador between their people and ours. I am old, and in need of a great novelty like this to make my life interesting once more." You note that the fur on her face, especially on the snout, has turned from brown to silvery gray - a sign of age in terrestrial creatures, and perhaps in the Hai as well.
	"Besides," she says, "after recent events they can hardly say no to me."
	She says, "If they prove to be friendly, I will help you to find a way to communicate with them directly, so you need not use me as an intermediary. But our first step must be to speak with them." You help her aboard your ship, and get ready to return to the alien homeworld.
Your ship is surrounded by the birdlike aliens. When you step onto the planet, one of the aliens seems to recognize you. "Ka'hai?" it seems to ask, once again mimicking the rodent-like ears of the Hai with its feathered limbs. You attempt to gesture to Sayari, but become embarrassed when you realize that you left her on one of your escorts that hasn't yet entered the system. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Sayari, the Hai ambassador, suggested that you visit <destination>, where Hai technologists are working on translation machines.
The Wanderers are a bird-like species who inhabit a small region of space adjacent to the Hai. They have been under attack by the "Unfettered" Hai for some time. The Wanderers claim to be peaceful, and most of their ships are not designed for military use.
Once again, the Wanderers allow you to land, but with a large flock of their light warships surrounding you to herd you into a particular landing zone. A small delegation of Wanderers meets you and Sayari, whom they greet hesitantly in the Hai language. She responds, and a heated exchange follows. You do not understand any of what they are saying.
	(Ask her what they are talking about.)
	(Wait for a break in the conversation.)
	She holds up a paw to you while speaking a few more sentences to them, then says, "They are saying that the Hai are attacking them, and they want to know why. It must be the Unfettered who are raiding them, and I am trying to explain that the Unfettered do not represent the Hai people as a whole."
	They continue talking for a while, and then the Wanderers ask you a question. Sayari translates, "They want to know what human beings want, and why you have come to their territory."
	"I'm just an individual explorer. I don't represent my species or their governments."
	"My hope is that our species might both benefit from trading goods and technologies with each other."
	"I believe that different species should communicate with each other rather than remaining in forced isolation."
	They respond, and Sayari translates, "They say that like you, they are travelers, and this region of space is not their home, so they will gladly welcome other sojourners here. But they warn you that if you betray their trust, you will not find that trust easy to regain. They also say..." She pauses as the Wanderers speak again, then continues translating. "They say that in their travels, they have met few species truly capable of living in peace, and they hope that yours is one of them, because..." Again she pauses as the Wanderers speak, then says, "Because, they hate to make new friends only to lose them again."
	They respond, and Sayari translates, "They say that they would perhaps be willing to trade with you, although to form a broader trade agreement with humans would be a serious decision and one they cannot make lightly." She pauses to listen again, and then continues, "They also say that they will discuss among themselves whether you should be given access to Wanderer technology, but again, that will not be a swiftly made decision." She pauses as the Wanderers speak again, then continues translating. "They say that in their travels, they have met few species truly capable of living in peace, and they hope that yours is one of them, because..." Again she pauses as the Wanderers speak, then says, "Because, they hate to make new friends only to lose them again."
	They respond, and Sayari translates, "They say that their species has encountered many other species in the past, and always has found those encounters to be valuable. Although..." She pauses to listen as the Wanderers continue speaking. "Although, they say that in their travels, far more often than they encounter living species, they instead only find themselves sifting through the refuse of a species that has destroyed itself through war or carelessness. They hope that you are not such a species, because..." Again she pauses as the Wanderers speak, then says, "Because, they hate to make new friends only to lose them again."
	Speaking through Sayari, you try to reassure the Wanderers that you have peaceful intentions. They speak with her for a while longer. She tells you, "They say that I will be allowed to stay here as an ambassador, and they will also let you land on most of their worlds. But they will not welcome any other Hai into their territory. I fear that they distrust the Hai because of the actions of the Unfettered, and being associated with me may harm your chances to win their favor. For your sake, we should find a different way for you to communicate with them."
	"How can we do that?"
	She says, "There are scientists on the Hai world of <planet> who develop speaking machines, to allow the Hai who do not know the human language to communicate with humans. I will write a letter asking them to give you one of these speaking machines, so that you may talk with the Wanderers without needing me as an intermediary."
You land on <origin> and seek out the technologist that Sayari told you to contact: a Hai named Eruk. His eyes light up when you describe what you need from him, and why. "Contact with a new species! How very exciting," he says. "I am glad for Sayari that such an opportunity has been presented to her. But our speaking machines are very valuable. Before I give one to you, will you do a small favor for me?"
	"Of course. What do you need?"
	"Can't I just pay you for one?"
	He says, "The human immigrants tell me that in the region of your space they call the Deep is a space station, a library that houses human cultural artifacts and a database of human literature and history. Bring me a copy of that database, and I will give you a speaking machine."
	"Money?" he says, with a dismissive gesture. "What use is money? No, from you I desire something far more valuable. The human immigrants tell me that in the region of your space they call the Deep is a space station, a library that houses human cultural artifacts and a database of human literature and history. Bring me a copy of that database, and I will give you a speaking machine."
	"No problem, I'll bring you a copy of the database as soon as I can."
	"How will I convince them to give me a copy of their data?"
	Your question seems to utterly confuse him. "Information," he says. "It is what you call a non-rival good, is it not? When I give information, I do not lose it. Sharing it costs me nothing. The librarians, surely they will understand this. Have no fear."
	"I actually already have a copy of that data."
	"You do? Please go get it!" he exclaims.
	You go to your ship to retrieve the data and give it to him upon returning. His eyes light up with excitement as he makes a copy of the card and returns the original to you.
You return to Eruk's workshop and give him the data card. His eyes light up with excitement as he makes a copy of the card and returns the original to you.
	"I have spent my whole life studying human culture," he says. "This is a treasure to me. And now, here is your speaking machine." He hands you a small, spherical device, with speakers and microphones mounted on it, as well as what look like camera lenses. "The device is programmed with the human and Hai languages," he says. "It is not always possible to translate perfectly between our two languages, but it will try to give you a sense of the range of meanings in what is being said."
	"Thank you. I'm eager to try it out!"
	"Is there anything else I need to know?"
	He humors you by demonstrating how the machine works, holding a conversation with you where he speaks in the Hai language, and the machine automatically translates for you and then translates your responses back into his language. It apparently uses its cameras to track who you are speaking to or listening to. It's an impressive piece of technology, and easy enough to use. You thank him for his help, and return to your ship.
Eruk, the Hai technologist on <origin>, has agreed to give you a translation machine if you can somehow get him a copy of the human cultural data from <destination>.
The station has a small museum gift shop that sells a copy of the entire archive on a data card. It only costs 40 credits, but because you have done a horrible job at managing your finances you do not have even that much cash on hand right now.
	Go earn some money, then return here.
Bring a copy of the human cultural archives to <destination> in exchange for a translation machine.
You had wondered how you would get a copy of the entire cultural archive, but it turns out to be easier than expected. The station has a small museum gift shop, which sells a copy of the archives on a data card. ("The perfect gift for the budding historian in your family! Hold all of human history in the palm of your hand. On sale now for only 39.99!") Given that a cheap data card costs a fraction of a credit, it's a bit of a rip-off, but you gladly buy one to take back to Eruk.
Return to the Wanderer homeworld of <destination> with a device that will allow you to converse with them more freely.
The Wanderers believe that their purpose in the universe is to "repair" planets whose biospheres have been ravaged by other species either through mismanagement or as a result of war. They came to their current territory through a wormhole that they call "the Eye," and they say that once their work here is done the Eye will open and lead them to a new territory and new worlds for them to care for.
It is possible that the worlds they currently inhabit were formerly part of Hai territory. That might explain why the Unfettered believe they have a right to take that territory back.
Rek is a Wanderer ambassador, a new and unusual profession among a species that until recently has had no contact with aliens except for the occasional Unfettered Hai raid. His job is to help the Wanderers develop a deeper relationship with humans.
With the help of your new translation device, you are able to contact the Wanderer government. They welcome you back and tell you that a Wanderer named "Iktat Rek" has been appointed as the official envoy to deal with human visitors, and he should be arriving at your landing pad shortly.
	Rek is slightly larger than most of the Wanderers you have seen, with muted white and brown plumage and a calm, dignified bearing. "It is very [rare, exceptional] in our history that we have to [deal with, cope with] other species," he says, "and now we find ourselves dealing with two at once." He is speaking the Hai language, and the translation device does its best to render his words in your own language.
	"How did you learn the Hai language?"
	"How long have you been fighting the Unfettered Hai?"
	"It has been nearly twenty [years, cycles] now," he says. "At first only a single Hai ship [visited, invaded] us, but back then we had no defenses in place to stop it. For years the ship only [harvested, stole] food from our frontier worlds, and avoided combat. In our culture it is an [obligation, duty] to share our food with one who [asks for, demands] it, so we did not oppose the Hai ship. But then more Hai ships came, attacked one of our worlds and took it for themselves, and killed many of our people. We built warships and drove them back, and yet their [raids, attacks] still continue."
	"Recently we managed to [take, capture] some of them as prisoners," he says. "They have been [raiding, visiting] us for twenty [years, cycles]. At first they only stole unguarded stores of food, and fled if we approached. We allowed them to take it, because in our culture it is a [duty, obligation] to share our food with those who [ask for, demand] it. But recently they have become far more [aggressive, desperate]. They captured one of our worlds and killed many Wanderers, and we built warships and drove them back. Some of them tried to hide on the planet, and we made them our [prisoners, guests] and slowly learned their language."
	"Do you know what the Unfettered want?" you ask.
	"They want food, and [land, elbowroom]," says Rek. "This we guessed when they first raided us, and the Hai named Sayari has confirmed this to me, that the Unfettered have [squandered, consumed] their own worlds and now make war to gain others."
	"What is the history of your species?"
	"How long have the Wanderers been in this region of space?"
	"It is now nearly ten thousand [years, cycles] since we passed through the Eye and entered this [region, territory]," he says.
	"We are an ancient people," he says. "This [region, territory] is not our homeland. We came here through the Eye nearly ten thousand [years, cycles] ago."
	"The Eye?" you ask.
	"A wormhole," he says. "Once in an [eon, era] the Eye opens, and the Wanderers journey through it to a new home. Since the time of our oldest [history, legends] it has been so. A hundred times, maybe a thousand, we have left one home and journeyed to another. Each new home the Eye brings us to is full of [devastation, destruction], and it takes many lifetimes to set things right. Then the Eye beckons again, and we move on. And each time we pass through the Eye we become something new."
	"Why would you travel through the wormhole, if you are leaving fruitful worlds you have worked hard to develop, and only ruined worlds await you on the other side?"
	"What do you mean, you become something new?"
	"The first generation of Wanderers that passes through the wormhole [receive, undergo] the Molt," says Iktat Rek. "They are altered in their [being, essence] and become [giants, people of renown]. Those who stay behind in the safety of the old worlds remain only themselves, and slowly diminish. So all Wanderers who have [courage, ambition] yearn for the Eye to open so our species may once again [grow, evolve]."
	"The reason we travel through the Eye is that those who [remain behind, settle] in the easy life on the worlds that need no further [healing, repair] are diminished. But those that pass through the Eye and face the challenge of new worlds undergo the Molt. They are altered in their [being, essence] and become [giants, people of renown]. So all Wanderers who have [courage, ambition] yearn for the Eye to open so our species may once again [grow, evolve]."
	"What makes the wormhole open? Who or what controls it?"
	"Why does the Molt happen? How does it work?"
	"Those are questions that we do not ask," he says. "It is a [taboo? religion? mystery?] for us."
	You ask a few other questions, but do not gain much more information. He does mention that the other Wanderer worlds have agreed to sell you some of their technology, and that you will be allowed to "[view, admire, envy]" their ships, but not to purchase them. You thank him for his time and his willingness to trust a member of an entirely unknown species, and return to your ship.
You have discovered that there is a Pug outpost north of Wanderer space. Since the Pug are known to be able to control wormholes, it is likely that they are the ones that control where and when the Wanderers travel to new worlds. Do you want to tell Iktat Rek about this?
	You meet with Rek and explain that the Pug are a species known for interfering in the affairs of others, and that you suspect that they are the ones who open the wormhole that causes the whole Wanderer species to migrate. Rek seems unfazed by this information. "I hope you will do nothing to [anger, offend] them," he says.
	"Of course, but doesn't it bother you that they are controlling your species?"
	"They are manipulating your whole species, using you as a planetary cleanup crew. Don't you want to be free from their control?"
	His feathers ruffle up a bit in response to your comment, but all he says is, "It is a great [gift, blessing] to our species that the Eye leads us to new lands and new challenges whenever we become [complacent, bored]. If another species gains some [advantage, benefit] from our work as well, should that not make us more [glad, eager] to do that work, rather than less?"
	"But wouldn't you rather be free from their control, free to remain on these worlds you have worked so hard to restore?"
	"If your species is being secretly controlled by another, doesn't that bother you?"
	"Alright. I understand. It's just that I would be concerned if my species were being controlled in this way."
	"Are we being controlled," he says, "or is it a partnership? We have gifts for making [ruined, corrupted] worlds bloom with new life. They give us worlds where our gifts can be [put to use, valuable]. We need new challenges to drive our species to greater [transformation, perfection]. They open new galaxies to us."
	He pauses, and then says, "Of course we know that how the Eye works is too [convenient, tailor-made] to be a random phenomenon. But it is a [gift, blessing] to us, and you must do nothing to drive them away, or we will be [trapped, stranded] on these few worlds and will stagnate and decline."
Wanderer supplies to <planet>
Transport <cargo> to <destination>, where repairs are needed from Unfettered attacks.
Walking around the spaceport, you are approached by two Wanderers. One of them begins speaking in the Hai language, which your translator picks up. "Greetings, [stranger, curiosity]. We heard you are capable of [providing, gifting] help. Is this correct?"
	"Yes it is. What do you need?"
	"Depends on how much you are willing to pay."
reputation: Hai
	"Ambassador Sayari mentioned humans do many [jobs, hobbies] in their space. Or are we mistaken?"
	"Indeed we do."
	"We only do those jobs to get paid."
	"Ambassador Sayari mentioned you are great [hero, explorer] in human space, and solved many [issues, disasters]. Or are we mistaken?"
	"Ambassador Sayari mentioned you are great [hero, explorer], even in Hai space, and solved many [issues, disasters]. Or are we mistaken?"
	"I guess I could be considered a hero."
	"Calling me a 'great' hero would be an understatement."
	"That's me, but I would prefer some payment as well."
	The speaking Wanderer looks at you with a blank expression, and simply says, "There can be [compensation, arrangements] of <payment> for the work.
	"At the [body, planet] named Vara Ke'sok, there are [raids, conquests] by Unfettered that take place. During these, various structures get [damaged, hurt]. We wish you to help [fix, mend] these by carrying <tons> of [supplies, materials]."
	"I'd be happy to do that."
	"Sorry, but I have more important matters to attend to."
	When the Wanderer hears your translated response, they chatter in the Wanderer language to their friend, who nods and runs off towards a nearby warehouse. "We will load the cargo into the ship soon. I will [join, accompany] you to <planet> to direct the [healing, repairs]."
Defend <planet> from an Unfettered attack by driving off or destroying the Hai ships.
Soon after you land in the spaceport, there is a flurry of activity as many of the Wanderers fly to their ships, which begin to take off from the planet. In the sky, you see bright flashes that may be distant weapons fire or explosions.
	You are buffeted by wind as one of the Wanderers lands next to your ship and says, in the Hai language, "Unfettered [raider, pirate] fleet comes. We have put food on freighter, hope they take [offering, gift] and leave. If not [appeased, satisfied] you help convince them to leave. Yes?"
Touching down onto the planet, several Wanderers gather around your ship and prepare to carry the cargo out of your ship. Before the Wanderer you transported to <planet> can say a word, a shrill bird cry fills the air.
	Looking around, you suddenly see a flurry of activity as many of the Wanderers fly to their ships, which begin to take off from the planet. In the sky, you see bright flashes that may be distant weapons fire or explosions.
	The Wanderer that tasked you to carry the construction materials speaks up. "Unfettered [raider, pirate] fleet comes. We will put food on freighter, hope they take [offering, gift] and leave. If not [appeased, satisfied] you help convince them to leave. [Understand, empathize]?"
	"I will help drive the Unfettered away."
	"Why do I need to help? I only accepted a transport mission."
	The Wanderer seems slightly taken aback by your response. "Imminent [danger, aggression]. The Unfettered bring [devastation, destruction]. Many [losses, crop failure] if you do not help. Will you aid us now?"
	"Yes, I will help drive the Unfettered away."
	"No, I will not help you fight them."
	The Wanderer flies off to join the defense effort. A few hours later, the flashes in the sky end; the Unfettered have either been destroyed, or have gotten what they wanted and left.
	The Wanderer leaves to join one of the ships that is taking off, and you quickly ready your own ship to follow...
There are still Unfettered warships overhead. You should take off again and assist in the fight.
Report to <planet>
Report to the Wanderer elders on <destination> that the Unfettered attacks are intensifying and moving farther in from the front.
One of the Wanderers thanks you for your assistance. "These foes become more [dangerous, aggressive]," it says. "You will report to [leaders, elders] on <planet>. They must decide our [action, response]."
Unfettered Diplomacy
Pick up a shipment of food on the Wanderer planet <destination>, to be delivered to the Unfettered as a peace offering.
On <origin>, you meet up with Iktat Rek and the Hai ambassador Sayari, and tell them that you just helped to drive off an Unfettered raid on the Wanderer water world of Vara Ke'sok. "The situation is not [sustainable, livable]," says Rek. "Perhaps the Unfettered are the ones [chosen, intended] to [inherit, receive] the fruit of our labors here, but until the Eye beckons us to a new [home, place] we have nowhere else to go."
	"You're saying that after working so hard to restore these worlds, you would give them to someone as destructive as the Unfettered?"
	"That can't be right. The Unfettered wrecked their own worlds. They would wreck yours as well."
	"That is the [way, calling] of the Wanderers," says Rek. "We [restore, repair] worlds and leave them to others, knowing that their new [caretakers, overseers] will squander their wealth."
	"But why?" you ask. "Why do so much work for the sake of others who will waste what you have made?"
	"Because we have tended the graveyards of a hundred failed species," says Rek, "who [spent, burned] all their resources before learning [wisdom, balance]. Put any creature in too small a cage, and it will [befoul, soil, defile] its own home and die. Give it more [space, opportunity] and it may flourish." He says to Sayari, "Ambassador, are we [foolish, simple] to have this hope?"
	Sayari says, "The Unfettered did not make war with you or with us until recently, when their three worlds began to die. Give them a new frontier, and we may have peace again."
	"But what can we do about their attacks?"
	"Rather than helping to expand and clean up those 'cages,' why not do something about the ones who built those cages in the first place?"
	Sayari says, "Set every species loose to make war on each other? That would be foolishness. War favors the strong, not the wise."
	Iktat Rek nods in agreement. "Life is too [prolific, creative]," he says. "New species are born too often, and new planets, too seldom, if each species were to take all that it [demands, covets]. So, there must be [limits, divisions]."
	"Then what can we do about the Unfettered?" you ask, "Won't they eventually desire even more?"
	Sayari says, "To buy time, you can offer them food in exchange for peace. Call it 'tribute,' not charity, or you will offend their pride."
	Rek says, "This is the best [plan, option] I have heard. <last>, will you carry me to <planet> to arrange for a shipment of food?"
	"Sorry, I don't want to assist the Wanderers any more."
When you land on <planet>, you ask one of the Wanderers where the food shipment is. They only tilt their head and respond to you in the Wanderer language. You look around for Iktat Rek to translate, but you realize that you left him on one of your escorts that hasn't yet entered the system. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Escort a freighter carrying "tribute" to the Unfettered world of <destination>. You may need to bribe the Unfettered to keep them from attacking you.
Once you arrive on <origin>, Iktat Rek explains, "We have [captured, salvaged] a few jump drives from the Unfettered, and installed one in a freighter. To avoid [provoking, threatening] the Unfettered, the freighter is unarmed. It would be a bad start to our [diplomacy, peacemaking] to strike the Unfettered with Wanderer weapons."
	"Does that mean I should not fire on them either?"
	"What should we do if they attack us, then?"
	"I would prefer that you avoid combat," he says. "The Unfettered are said to be [greedy, eager] for bribes, if you are willing to spend money to buy peace. Or simply avoid returning fire; the freighter is well shielded."
	It takes several hours for the massive Wanderer freighter to be loaded. Rek explains that they have kept track of which kinds of food the Unfettered prefer to steal, so they know what will be edible for them. He says, "Our destination is called <planet>. Sayari tells me that all Hai share a [custom, taboo] concerning guests, so once we land on their planet we will be able to [speak, parley] with them in safety."
You've landed on <planet>, but you're missing something! Either the <npc> hasn't entered the system yet, or Iktat Rek is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Escort this Wanderer freighter safely back to <destination>.
The Unfettered make no attempt to attack you once you have landed on their planet. The Wanderer crew begins unloading the crates of food onto the landing pad, and eventually a small delegation of Unfettered leaders approaches. Iktat Rek explains that the food is a peace offering.
	"It is far too little," says the Unfettered leader, "too little to pay us back for the ships you have destroyed and the worlds you have stolen. Until you give us back our worlds, we cannot have peace."
	(Let Iktat Rek do the talking.)
	"You mean the ships that were destroyed while they were pillaging the Wanderers? You expect them to pay you back for those?"
	"Peace, human," says Iktat Rek. "We are not here to decide who is right." He gestures to you to step back and allow him to speak with the Hai alone.
	"This is indeed only a [token, foretaste]," says Iktat Rek. "We have plenty more to offer, and surely you see that for us to fight each other is wasteful."
	They talk for a while longer. Eventually the Hai leader settles on a deal: "We will send you freighters. Whenever the freighter comes, you will fill it with food. If not, it is war. If you attack the freighter, it is war. And you must let us reclaim one of our worlds."
	Iktat Rek says, "We will give you food, but I am not [authorized, permitted] to give you a world. I must speak to our [government, elders]." The Hai agree to that, and you get ready to return the freighter to <planet>.
Return Iktat Rek to <destination>.
You drop the freighter off safely on <origin>. Iktat Rek says, "Now I must return to our home, to [discuss, plan] with our elders. We cannot trust the Unfettered with a world in our space; they would build a [garrison, war fleet] there and attack us. But perhaps this [agreement, settlement] will give us peace for long enough to find a better solution."
When you return to <planet>, you're approached by Sayari and a few of the Wanderer elders. "Where is Iktat Rek?" Sayari asks. You realize that you left him on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
When you return to <planet>, Iktat Rek meets with Ambassador Sayari and a few of the Wanderer elders. The elders thank you for the role that you played in negotiating a temporary peace, and Rek says, "We will [reward, honor] you by allowing you to purchase our current [civilian, peacekeeping] ships."
	The elders seem to agree that this is only a temporary solution. The Unfettered cannot be granted a base in Wanderer territory: they would use their few jump drives to move a few warships at a time to that base until they had a fleet too strong for the Wanderers to defeat. Sooner or later, the Unfettered will grow tired of demanding such a base and will return to open warfare.
	In the meantime, the only way to defuse the situation would be to get all the jump drives out of the hands of the Unfettered - and that means discovering and stopping whoever is supplying those drives to them.
Check with Iktat Rek?
Meet up with Iktat Rek on <planet> to see if there is anything more you can do to help the Wanderers now that they have established a ceasefire with the Unfettered.
It has been a while since you negotiated the ceasefire between the Wanderers and the Unfettered, and so far the truce seems to be holding. Now that the immediate crisis is under control, maybe it's time to meet up with Iktat Rek to talk about finding a more permanent response to the Unfettered incursion.
Jump drive source?
Iktat Rek asked you to acquire a spare jump drive and sell it to the Unfettered in exchange for information on where they are getting jump drives from. Then, return to <destination>.
When you arrive on <origin>, Iktat Rek greets you warmly. "Human," he says, "it is a [relief, delight] to have [peace, safety] within our territory. But the Unfettered will not be [placated, satisfied] forever. I have spoken with ambassador Sayari about this and we are agreed that we must know what [allies, accomplices] the Unfettered have, what their [strength, capability] is, and how they have acquired jump drives."
	"Agreed. How can I help you?"
	"Umm... they may actually have gotten some of those jump drives from me."
	Rek seems startled, but finally says, "I see. It is [understandable, forgivable] that you would want to placate them. So I will not [fault, censure] you for that. In fact it may help us that you have done so. What we [ask, desire] of you is to sell them another drive, but this time find a [pretense, excuse] to ask who else supplies them with jump drives. Since you have [helped, abetted] them, they may trust you with that information."
	Rek says, "What we [ask, desire] of you is to acquire a jump drive and sell it to them, to [earn, curry] more favor with them. Then find a [pretense, excuse] to ask who else supplies them with jump drives. Because you [brokered, negotiated] the ceasefire, they may trust you with that information."
	"But, won't it hurt you in the long run for the Unfettered to have another jump drive?"
	Rek says, "Over a hundred of their ships have [raided, violated] our space in the past few years. Someone is [equipping, supplying] them with many jump drives, and one more will make little difference. We must [cut off, eliminate] the source."
	You promise to do your best to cajole information from the Unfettered, and he wishes you luck in doing so.
You have not yet tried to sell the Unfettered Hai a jump drive. Return here after doing so.
You report to Iktat Rek. "Most [intriguing, disturbing]," he says. "If what you say of these Alpha humans is [correct, unbiased], they are a dangerous foe. And in exchange for so many jump drives, no doubt the Unfettered have [supplied, furnished] them with many weapons." He pauses to think for a minute, then says, "You must track them. There is a Wanderer [device, technology] that can help you. But I must ask our [elders, government] for permission before giving you access to it. I will meet you back in the spaceport soon."
Following Iktat Rek's suggestion, would you like to sell a jump drive to the Hai and see what information you can get in return?
	You eventually find one of the Unfettered who speaks your language. She directs you to the office of the "governor" (or perhaps warlord) in charge of the spaceport. The governor says, "I offer you same terms as to the other humans. One million credits, and we give you hyperdrive in place of jump drive. Is this acceptable?"
	"Sorry, let me come back when I have a jump drive to spare."
	Carefully, almost reverently, the Unfettered technicians remove the jump drive from your ship. The governor pays you and then stands by to watch them work. Perhaps you can get more information from him.
	"If I want to find more jump drives to give you, where should I look?"
	"You said that 'other humans' have been selling you jump drives as well?"
	He says, "The unfettered humans will not tell us their source, but we suspect they steal from our old foe, the Korathi invaders. The unfettered human leader told a story I did not understand, that Prometheus was punished for stealing from the gods, but no one is punished for stealing from Prometheus. Was Prometheus a human hero?"
	"Yes," he says, "the unfettered humans. They sell us many jump drives. They say it is their calling to help us. The unfettered human leader told a story I did not understand, that Prometheus was punished for stealing from the gods, but no one is punished for stealing from Prometheus. Was Prometheus a human hero?"
	You explain the myth to him as best you can, then ask, "What do you mean, 'unfettered humans'?"
	He seems surprised that you do not know what he is talking about. "The green ones," he says.
	"Alphas? You shouldn't trade with the Alphas! They're dangerous, uncontrollable criminals!"
	"Oh, of course. The green humans are held in as high esteem as Prometheus himself. Can you tell me where to find them, so I can give them the honor they deserve?"
	"That is what the altered Hai say about we the Unfettered," he says. "They say that because they are weak and afraid. Perhaps you are weak and afraid also, and I was wrong to deal with you."
	He is silent and looks at you with a wary, calculating expression. "They did not say where they come from," he says, "and they said others would come seeking to ensnare them. Perhaps I was wrong to trust you."
	You are able to get no further information from him, but what you already know is quite valuable. You should report back to Iktat Rek and see what he says.
Alpha Surveillance
Drop off surveillance micro-satellites in the three Unfettered home systems, then stop by <destination> to see if the Hai government knows anything about an Alpha enclave nearby.
You cycle the airlock and dump a handful of the tiny Wanderer surveillance cubes into space. By the time they've drifted a few meters away, your ship's sensors are unable to detect them.
When you meet Iktat Rek, he hands you a small box containing several small, charcoal black cubes, about two centimeters wide. "These are the [eyes, sensors] of our [communications? surveillance? information?] network," he says. "Until they receive the [request, query] command they generate no [signal, electromagnetic radiation] and almost no heat. But they watch, and [record, remember]. [Sow, scatter, deploy] several of these in each Unfettered system. Then you should visit the Hai [center, homeworld] and see if they know anything of the [activities, presence] of the Alphas."
	You bring the surveillance devices back to your ship. It looks like Rek gave you extra, presumably so that you can deploy enough in each system to have redundancy if some of them fail. It probably wouldn't make a difference to the success of the mission if you kept one for yourself, and based on what Rek said this technology might be very valuable.
	(Use all of them for the mission, as instructed.)
	(Steal one of the devices to keep for myself.)
	You split the devices up into three groups to launch out your airlock in each of the three Unfettered systems. Hopefully the Unfettered will not notice what you are doing.
	You split the devices up into three piles, one for each of the Unfettered systems, and keep one of them for yourself, well hidden in a safe place on your ship.
Hiyamaharu is an aged Hai ambassador. He appears to have taken of Sayari's role in dealing with humans since her departure from Hai space.
The surveillance cubes have all been deployed. While you wait for them to collect their recordings of the ship traffic in the Unfettered systems, you stop by the Hai center of government and ask for the human ambassador. With the combination of your reputation, and the more recent discovery of the Wanderers, they quickly give you an appointment.
	The ambassador is an old, male Hai named Hiyamaharu. "Honored human," he says, "It is a pleasure to meet you. If I may assist you in any way, I shall do so."
	"Thank you." (Explain about the Alphas.)
	He says, "We know of them. Indeed, our first contact with the humans, two centuries ago, was with these green people. They sought to cheat us and dominate us. They are not merely misfits like the Unfettered; these Alpha humans are cruel and self-interested. They thought we were simple because we are peaceful, but we were too shrewd and too strong for them, and they are now banned from our territory. But then the peaceful humans came, and we learned that you are not all like the Alphas."
	"Is it possible that they have a hidden base on one of your worlds?"
	"Do you know where they went when you banned them from your space?"
	"No," he says, "It has been two hundred years, and our worlds are populous and overseen with great diligence. Unless they have taken refuge with the Unfettered, they are not in our space."
	"Then where could they have gone?" you ask.
	"We do not know," he says. "It is not our business to track the doings of other species, outside our territory. And during the time of the Korath raids, we would not have had the capacity to track them, anyway."
	You thank him for his time. Now you just have to wait long enough for the surveillance cubes to collect their data, and hope they record something useful.
Travel through the three Unfettered systems to retrieve the surveillance recordings, then report back to Iktat Rek on <destination>.
Using the transmitter that came with the surveillance cubes, you send out the signal and receive back the encrypted fleet activity recordings.
It has been a month since you deployed the surveillance devices in the Unfettered home systems. It's time for you to go back and retrieve whatever recordings they made. You'll then be able to bring the recordings back to Iktat Rek on <planet> to decrypt and analyze them.
	Hopefully you will be able to collect the data without the Unfettered intercepting the transmissions and realizing they have been spied on.
When you arrive at the spaceport, you contact Iktat Rek and send him a copy of the encrypted recordings. You also mention to him that the Unfettered attacked you after you sent out the data retrieval signal. "That is [unfortunate, regrettable]," says Rek. "I hope they will [cool off, calm down] in time. I suspect you could buy their [friendship, favor] back with another jump drive, or just ignore their [attacks, antagonism] for now."
	You ask what you should do next, and Rek says, "We need some time to [analyze, inspect] the sensor logs. Meet me in the spaceport in an hour."
The Wanderers have no technology for tracking a ship that is using a jump drive, but Iktat Rek thinks the Quarg might be able to and suggested visiting them on <destination>.
When you meet up with Iktat Rek, he shows you a picture of a Navy Carrier. "The sensors [observed, detected] this ship entering the Hi Yahr system via jump drive," he says. You tell him that it is a human military vessel. "Do you think your military could be [assisting, abetting] the Unfettered?" he asks.
	"It's possible, but it could also be a stolen ship. I wouldn't expect the Navy to side with the Unfettered."
	"I wouldn't put it past them. It could be some sort of hidden program to gain access to alien technology."
	Iktat Rek says, "I see. So either your [leadership, government] knows about this secret, or it is a [private, separate] military conspiracy. Either way, that worries me."
	"What should we do about it?" you ask.
	"I hope you are right," says Rek. "I do not wish our [conflict, tension] with the Unfettered to place us at war with humans. We must [investigate, explore] this matter further."
	"How can we do that?" you ask.
	"You must track this ship," says Rek. "A jump drive creates a temporary [portal? identity? oneness?] between two [locations, regions] in space. A species that [creates, manufactures] jump drives may be able to [track, detect] the residue of those links. Sayari tells me that such a species [lives in, borders on] Hai space. Perhaps they will aid you."
	You agree to make a visit to the Quarg ringworld in Hai space, and he wishes you luck on your journey.
As always, it is impossible to tell which of the Quarg is in charge here or might be able to help you. The first few you ask seem none too eager to give any technology related to the jump drive to a human, but finally one of them listens to your story and says, "I know of the Alphas. And of the Unfettered. There is one who may be willing to assist you." After a brief conversation in the Quarg language via a communication device, the Quarg says, "Return to the spaceport in an hour and one will meet you to hear your petition."
Iktat Rek arrives carrying a handheld device with two long antennas. "You must [pardon, forgive] me," he says. "It appears you have [dropped, misplaced] one of the tracking devices. Fortunately I have the [means, capability] to determine where on your ship it is [located, concealed]. Shall I assist you in finding it?"
	"No, umm... I bet it just fell out of the box in my cargo hold. I'll look around and see if I can find it."
	"I'm sorry, I kept one of them to try to figure out how it works. I'll go get it and give it back to you."
	(Get back in my ship and flee.)
	"I see," says Rek. You wish you were able to read Wanderer facial expressions; you are not sure if he believes you. You go into your ship, wait long enough to make it appear that you needed to search, then return and give the device back to him.
	"I am glad you [admitted, confessed] that," says Rek. "Please be more [honest, obedient] in the future." You retrieve the hidden surveillance device and return it to him.
	"Thank you," says Rek. "Now, here is what we discovered." He shows you a picture of a Navy Carrier. "The sensors [observed, detected] this ship entering the Hi Yahr system via jump drive," he says. You tell him that it is a human military vessel. "Do you think your military could be [assisting, abetting] the Unfettered?" he asks.
	As your ship is leaving the atmosphere, the surveillance cube suddenly glows red hot and collapses in on itself, melting down into a tiny pile of slag. Not only have you betrayed the Wanderers, but you are left with nothing to show for it.
As always, it is impossible to tell which of the Quarg is in charge here or might be able to help you. The first few you ask seem none too eager to give any technology related to the jump drive to a human, but finally one of them listens to your story and says, "I know of the Alphas. And of the Unfettered. There is one who may be willing to assist you." After a brief conversation in the Quarg language via a communication device, the Quarg says, "Go to the spaceport, and one will meet you to hear your petition."
You recall hearing hints that the Pug assisted the humans of the Deep in battle against the Alphas, so the Pug might be natural allies in your current mission. Would you like to see if any of them here will help you?
	You try to get several of the Pug to talk to you, but most of them pointedly ignore you. Eventually, probably because you've made it clear that you are not going away, one of them approaches you carrying a small black box. It speaks to the box in its language, and the box says, "Hello you are a human you are from planet Earth are you not." It seems that the box is a rudimentary translation device, speaking in a monotone voice and without pausing between sentences. It is somewhat jarring to listen to, but you understand what is being said.
	You say, "Yes, that's correct."
	The box appears to translate your words, and the Pug responds to it. The box says, "Humans are not our responsibility why have you come to our planet."
	"The Alphas are causing trouble again, and I've heard that you helped us fight them in the past."
	"The Alphas have sided with the ones who are invading the Wanderers. Can you help us track them down?"
	The Pug speaks again. "Who are the Alphas that name is not known to us."
	You do your best to explain. Perhaps the humans of the Deep were wrong that the Pug knew about the Alphas. The Pug responds, "We can defend the Wanderers but the Hai and humans are beyond our jurisdiction we will not enter their space."
	(Give up and leave.)
	(Try to convince them to help.)
	You do your best, but the Pug here are clearly not interested in helping you. Eventually you give up and return to your ship.
Find the Alphas
With the help of Elias Hanover and his tracker device, locate the Alpha Base and then return to the Quarg ringworld of <planet>.
You need a bunk free in order to take on this mission.
Elias has been living with the Quarg in Hai space for a long time, and they trust him enough to give him access to some of their restricted technology.
You are met in the spaceport by a bearded, middle-aged human man and a Quarg with exceptionally wrinkly skin. The Quarg says, "I hear that you need help against the Alphas. My friend Elias here has lived among us for a long time, and has told me much about the Alphas, their wars and their depredations."
	The human shakes hands with you and introduces himself as Elias Hanover. He says, "The Quarg are very hesitant to take sides in what they view as an internal human conflict. And they are equally hesitant to entrust their technology to a stranger like you. But if the Alphas are gathering strength and amassing alien technology, they must be stopped."
	The Quarg says, "Elias is a trusted friend of ours. We have given him a device for tracking a ship traveling by jump drive, and programmed it with the parameters of a human Carrier. Do not try to take the device from him. He will lead you to find your quarry, and then you must return the device to us immediately."
	Elias asks, "If we find them, are you prepared to take on a Carrier by yourself?"
	"Yes, my ship is stronger than anything in human space."
	"I don't think so. Are you sure that will be necessary?"
	"You think the Alphas are likely to surrender without a fight?" he asks. "Maybe you should invest in a Hai warship before we begin chasing them down."
	You thank the Quarg for being willing to help you, and you and Elias return to your ship.
As you enter the system, Elias checks his tracker device. "Yup, I'm picking up signs of a jump-enabled Carrier," he says. "The path goes east, beyond the edge of Hai space."
Elias checks the tracker again. "Southeast, from here," he says. Meanwhile, your ship's warning sirens begin going off; there are alien ships here, and they don't seem friendly.
Elias checks the tracker. "Still due southeast," he says. "And I hope those Korath ships aren't on the same side as the Alphas."
Elias fiddles with his tracking device for a while, and then gives up. "Sorry, I'm not reading any signals here. Maybe they jumped right over this system?"
Elias says, "Found their trail. They've turned and headed east again, and maybe a little bit north."
Elias frowns as he looks at the tracker's readout. "I think we've taken a wrong turn. No sign of jump drives being used in this system," he says.
When you enter this system, your sensors pick up a Navy Carrier in orbit around an Earth-like planet. It appears that you have found the Alpha base. "That's them," says Hanover. "I hope you're strong enough to destroy them." The Carrier starts to launch fighters: Korath ones, not human ships. This might be a difficult fight...
The Alpha Carrier has been destroyed. You can now return to the Quarg ringworld and plan your next steps.
You've returned to <planet>, but you have a feeling that your job isn't done. Either find where the Alphas are hiding, or return to where they are hiding and finish what you started.
When you land back on <planet>, Elias says that he should go and immediately return the tracking device to his Quarg friend. "After that," he says, "we'll need to figure out who can help us to locate and bust open the Alpha base. Meet me in the spaceport when you're ready."
You park your ship high up on a mountain where you will be able to see if any of the giant reptiles approach. This is almost certainly where the Alphas have their base, but your sensors are not able to locate it, and even if you could you do not have a military ground force with you. To take care of the threat once and for all, you will need to return with an invasion force.
Visit Danforth
Visit Admiral Danforth on <planet> and see if he is able to supply you with an attack force to locate and destroy the Alpha base.
When you meet up with Elias Hanover in the spaceport, he says, "I can't think of any other way to go about it: we need to involve the Navy in this. No one else has the capability to launch a ground attack."
	"Are you sure we can trust them? The Alphas were in a Navy ship, after all."
	"We could go to Admiral Danforth. He's a Navy officer who I trust to be on the right side."
	"Can you think of any other option?" he says.
	"There's a branch of the Navy called the 'Oathkeepers,'" you tell him, "led by Admiral Danforth. If there is anyone in the Navy whom we can trust, it's them."
	"Danforth?" says Elias. "William Danforth? The Hero of Hope? He's still in the service?" You nod. "Well then yes, let's go to him," says Elias.
	He comes back aboard your ship, and you prepare to travel to Danforth's base on <destination>.
You've landed on <planet>, but you realize that Elias is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive before meeting with Admiral Danforth.
Admiral Danforth is very pleased to see you, but his expression turns grim when you explain why you have come. When you mention the Alphas, he hushes you. "Let's not speak of that, out here in the open," he says. "Not that I do not trust my people, but it is best to be safe. I will gather troops who I know are able to operate discreetly and have them be ready to join us on an expedition. Meet me in my private office at the spaceport when you're ready."
Invade Avalon
Escort Admiral Danforth's Navy <npc model> to <destination> and land on the planet with them. They will attempt to locate and eliminate the Alpha base.
However, the true reason that the powerful Oathkeeper fleet is positioned in the North is not just to keep the pirates at bay, but also to stand as a last defense in case the Hai decide to invade human space. Apparently the Navy has known about the Hai and the wormhole linking their space to human space for some time, but chooses not to make that knowledge public.
Danforth welcomes you into his private office and uses a device to sweep the room for bugs. "Please forgive my caution," he says when he is done. "Now, show me where this planet is."
	You show him the planet on your map. "That's a long way out from human space," says Danforth. "All the way on the other side of Hai territory. Are the Hai rebels still occupying these systems?" He points to the three systems where the Unfettered live.
	"You seem to be very familiar with the Hai's space?"
	Danforth looks bemused. "Living on their doorstep? I've known about them from long before the secret broke. Why do you think the Navy maintains such a large base on Farpoint in the first place? It's not like the human anarchists up north pose that much of a threat."
	"It's not just the distance," says Elias. "The only way to get there is by jump drive. Fortunately Captain <last> has one."
	"As do I," says Danforth, a bit smugly. When he sees your surprised expressions he elaborates. "Recovered it from the Pug. Accidentally forgot to file the paperwork reporting it. You know how it is. Old men like me can be absent-minded." He smiles, "My engineers are installing it in my flagship even as we speak."
	"So you're willing to come with us?"
	"Are you sure you want to take the risk of traveling with us?"
	"Wouldn't miss it for the world," he says. "With a mission like this, if I want it done right, I need to be there in person. Now, let's get going before the rumors start to fly. It's hard for three squadrons to prep for a secret mission without anyone else noticing."
You have reached <planet>, but you left Danforth's ship behind. Wait for him to arrive (or go back and refuel him, if necessary) and then return here.
Escort Admiral Danforth's ship safely back to <destination>.
It does not take long for Danforth's team to locate the Alpha base, buried deep underground in a network of limestone caves. You and Danforth hover your ships above the site to catch anyone who tries to take off and escape. Danforth keeps you updated on the progress of the troops. "Breached the perimeter. Dealing with some booby traps. Explosives, poison gas. Nasty stuff. No sign of inhabitants, but they were here recently. Place looks cleaned out. Extensive base. Hangars, labs, supply rooms. Probably took them a century to build."
	His troops spend a while exploring the base and eventually conclude that the Alphas packed up and left soon after you destroyed the Carrier. Once the place has been thoroughly explored and they are sure there are no more clues to be found, Danforth tells them, "Okay, blow the place. No sense in leaving them a base to return to."
	"So this was all for nothing?"
	"I wish we had been able to catch them."
	"Don't feel so bad," says Danforth. "At least you took out their Carrier. If you had come for me without engaging them, chances are they would still have figured their cover was blown and fled. And now they're on the run, which is going to limit their ability to make mischief."
	Danforth's ship collects his troops and takes off. A few seconds later he hails you. "Captain, we have incoming ships from the far side of the planet," he says. "My ship is no match for them. Let's get out of here." It looks like this world is not completely uninhabited, after all...
You and Elias return to Danforth's private office to debrief, but a few minutes after you arrive there is a knock on the door. Danforth pulls up a video monitor to check who it is, swears, takes a brief glance around the room as if to check that he hasn't left anything incriminating out in plain sight, then opens the door. An officer in an unmarked uniform walks in along with several armed guards. "Admiral Danforth," says the officer, "I trust your expedition went well?"
	Danforth mumbles something in reply. "And you, Captain <last>," says the officer, "Always in the thick of things, eh?"
	"I suppose so."
	"Only when the galaxy needs saving."
	"Just trying to do what's right."
	The officer turns to Elias. "And Mister Hanover," he says, "I want to thank you personally for assisting us in the fight against the Alphas, once again."
	"You're welcome," says Hanover, warily.
	"You're very camera shy," says the officer. "You didn't stick around long enough to receive our thanks after helping to liberate those worlds in the Dirt Belt back in 2894 AD. Of course, you went by 'Jeremy Hanover' back then." He hands Hanover a photo of some Navy officers talking with a man who looks very much like Hanover himself.
	"That was my grandfather," says Hanover.
	"I see," says the officer. "Of course, what you deserve even more thanks for is your assistance during the Second Alpha War. Here's a photo of you from 2461 AD." He displays another photo, again apparently of Hanover himself, with some men in archaic pre-Republic uniforms. The guards standing behind you raise their weapons and point them at you and Elias.
	(Stay where I am.)
	(Try to fight.)
	(Try to run away.)
	You jump up from your seat. The guards fire, and everything goes black.
	You raise your hands in surrender. The guards fire, and everything goes black.
Meet up with Danforth
Meet Admiral Danforth in the spaceport on <origin>, and talk about what to do next about the Alphas.
Certain Navy officers believe that Elias may actually be more than five centuries old, and that he may be a genetically modified individual, perhaps specifically designed to have capabilities similar to the Alphas so that he can fight against them.
You wake up with a pounding headache and the groggy, hung-over feeling of having been shot with a military grade stun gun. You are strapped into a metal chair with at least a dozen electrodes connected to your head and body. Elias is in a similar chair facing you. A technician stands behind a bank of computer displays in one corner, with the nameless officer looking on.
	"I demand that you let me go!"
	Seeing that you are both awake, the officer walks over and looks at you for a second with a cool, appraising expression. Then without warning, he punches you in the face.
	"Standard operating procedure," says the officer, walking over to you. Then, without warning, he punches you in the face.
	The officer walks over to you. "Sorry, I can't let you go just yet," he says. Then, without warning, he punches you in the face.
	While you are still reeling from the blow, the officer walks over to Elias and punches him, as well. He pauses to adjust one of the electrodes that was loosened by the blow, then walks back to you and punches you again. The technician stares down at the computer screens with an intense frown on his face as the officer hits Elias again and then walks back to you.
	"What the hell are you doing?"
	"Please just tell me what you want."
	(Spit in his face.)
	(Do nothing.)
	The officer glances over at the technician, who says, "<last> appears to be well within human parameters, sir."
	He ignores your question and glances over at the technician, who says, "<last> appears to be well within human parameters, sir."
	"Interesting," he says, as he wipes the spittle off his face with his sleeve. Then he glances over at the technician. "Did you get a read on that?"
	"<last> is well within human parameters, sir," says the technician.
	The officer nods in acknowledgment, then unclips your arm restraints. "It seems I owe you an apology, Captain," he says. "Would you like to hit me back?" He leans in toward you to put his face within striking range.
	(Punch him back.)
	"How kind of you," he says. Then he asks the technician, "What about Hanover?"
	The technician says, "Hanover isn't human. Or Alpha. I've never seen readings like this before, except maybe from an empath."
	You punch him. He staggers back, then looks over at the technician, who reports, "Hanover felt that, sir. Empathetic response."
	"What?" says the officer. He walks over and studies the monitors for a minute, then says, "Mister Hanover, you have the skin of a human. You have the physique of an Alpha. But you registered more sympathetic pain from watching someone else get struck in the face than you did when you yourself were punched, which makes your brain the complete opposite of an Alpha's. So, what the hell are you? Who made you, and why?"
	Elias says nothing.
	"Sir," says the technician, "could the stories be true?" The look in his eyes is something approaching awe.
	"Yes, there are the old legends," says the officer thoughtfully. "A secret weapon against the Alphas. Made in government labs with forbidden technology. Like the Alphas in some ways, but designed to serve, not to master all. Is that what you are? Are you a Beta?" Elias says nothing.
	"If he's not an Alpha, you have no right to imprison us."
	"If you're convinced that neither of us is an Alpha, will you please let us go?"
	"I suppose so," says the officer. As they release you from the chairs, he says to Elias, "If you are what I believe you are, we can help you to complete your work at last. Gather your siblings. Join us. Together we can put an end to the Alphas." Still, Elias says nothing.
	They lead you out into the hallway and you realize you are on board a Navy Cruiser. As you leave the ship, the officer tells Elias, "Think about what I said."
	Elias remains quiet while you are in earshot of the ship, then says, "Let's meet up with Danforth back in the spaceport and see what he thinks we should do next."
Return Elias to <planet>
Bring Elias Hanover back to <destination>, where he will hopefully be safe from Alpha retaliation for driving them out of their base on Avalon.
You don't have enough passenger space to take on this mission. Return here when you have a bunk free.
Danforth looks relieved to see you both alive. "Damned Republic Intelligence Agency," he says. "They think they're above the law. And after all that they decided you both are clean?" He looks intently at Elias.
	"Yes, in fact now they're trying to get us to work together with them against the Alphas."
	"Yes, and they think Elias can help them against the Alphas."
	"I see," says Danforth. "I wish I could tell you that they can be trusted. I wish I could tell you that there is no safer place for an enemy of the Alphas than here with me."
	He pauses to pull out a data pad from his desk and call up a file on it. "Recently," says Danforth, "an officer of mine assisted in taking down an Alpha enclave, like you have done." He's looking specifically at Elias as he says that. "A month later he was somehow assassinated, right here in my Naval base. Here's a photo of him." Danforth slides the data pad across the desk. It's showing a man you do not recognize, but Elias stifles a cry of dismay when he sees who it is. Danforth says, "I can't pretend you would be safe here. I think the safest thing for both of you would be to leave human space for a while."
	He pauses to pull out a data pad from his desk and call up a file on it. "Recently," says Danforth, "an officer of mine assisted in taking down an Alpha enclave, like you have done." He's looking specifically at Elias as he says that. "A month later he was somehow assassinated, right here in my Naval base. Here's a photo of him." Danforth slides the data pad across the desk. It's showing a photo of Commander Nguyen, and to your surprise Elias stifles a cry of dismay when he sees who it is. Danforth says, "I can't pretend you would be safe here. I think the safest thing for both of you would be to leave human space for a while."
	You agree that you will take Elias back to Alta Hai. Whatever Elias is, whoever might wish him harm, you can only hope that a Quarg ringworld is the safest place for him right now.
You've landed on <planet>, but you realize that Elias is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Return to Iktat Rek on <planet>
Check in with Iktat Rek on <planet> in the <system> system, now that the Alpha base has been eliminated.
You drop Elias off on <origin>. "Don't worry about me," he says, "The Quarg have kept me safe here for a long time. Thanks for being willing to risk your life against the Alphas."
	"Wait, won't you tell me whether anything that officer said about you was true?"
	(Let him go without pressing him for more information.)
	He says, "It is true that I am six centuries old. It is true that I am not strictly human. It is true that I oppose the Alphas. More than that, I will not share, both for my own safety and for yours."
	You wish Elias the best of luck and tell him that you hope to meet again one day. Now you should probably return to Wanderer space and check in with Iktat Rek.
It's hard to be certain, but the activity around the spaceport seems more hectic than usual, and the Wanderers seem to have put some new ship models into production as well. When you ask Iktat Rek about it, he says, "When the Unfettered first [invaded, occupied] our territory, we had almost no weapons of [war, defense]. Since then we have retrieved old [designs, instructions] and begun preparing for what is to come, [unpleasant, unfortunate] though it may be."
	As you describe your mixed success at dealing with the Alphas, he shakes his wings and ruffles out his feathers in what seems to be a nervous, agitated gesture. "These Alpha [beings, creatures] sound more [dangerous, unreasonable, ruthless] than the Unfettered," he says. "Any [social, gregarious] species that evolves naturally develops certain [limits, checks, restraints] that an [artificial, constructed] species may not possess. How can we best [respond to, deal with] them?"
	"It may be wisest to leave them alone."
	"I think the only answer is to be strong enough that they leave you alone."
	"Sooner or later we will have to hunt them down and destroy them."
	"You are probably right," he says, uncertainly. He stares absently up into the sky and scratches at his wing with one talon. A few feathers fall out. "If only the Eye would open," he says. "I feel the air is [charged, tense] like the moment before a storm. Like we are [waiting, anticipating] something that ought to be here and is not. Though it may bring [catastrophe, upheaval, transition] I wish the wait would end."
	You talk for a while longer, but it seems that for now there is nothing more the Wanderers need from you. Iktat Rek mentions that you should stop by the outfitter before you leave and see "our [grim, regrettable] new devices," then thanks you once more and departs.
Unfettered Invasion
Travel to <destination> to ask Iktat Rek if you can assist the Wanderers against the Unfettered invasion.
The Wanderers on <origin> are in a panic. Apparently the Unfettered have finally succeeded in capturing one of the Wanderer planets, and are now amassing a war fleet there. You should probably check with Iktat Rek and see if he needs your help to drive the Unfettered back.
Evacuate <planet>
Escort a fleet of freighters, refitted for carrying refugees, to <destination>.
Iktat Rek looks more harried and anxious than you have ever seen him: his feathers, normally perfectly preened, stick out at odd angles in patches on his face and shoulders, and he paces back and forth restlessly as you converse. "We have begun building warships," he says, "but do not yet have the [strength, numbers] to resist the invaders. We must retreat to a more [narrow? defensible?] position. Will you assist us in the evacuation?"
	"Why not strike back at the Unfettered and drive them out, before they can gain a stronger foothold?"
	"That is not who we are," he says. "You are not Wanderer. You cannot [understand, empathize]. Our work is not complete until the worlds we have [tended, cared for] are [gifted, bequeathed] to another. [Art, creation] is lifeless until it is [enjoyed, experienced] by others. If the Unfettered are the ones [destined, chosen] to enjoy what we have [created, accomplished], then we will gladly give our [territory, worlds] to them."
	"Okay, I'll help you to evacuate."
	"Thank you," he says. "We have assembled a fleet of freighters, refitted to carry [refugees, evacuees]. These ships are not ideal, but they will suffice for now until we can produce dedicated [transportation, evacuation] ships. Please escort the fleet to <planet>. You will receive further [orders, directions] when you land."
You have reached <planet>, but the Wanderer transports have not all arrived yet. You should take off and wait for them to catch up with you.
A female Wanderer named Emeka'a Isai meets you when you land with the freighter fleet. From the way others are obeying her orders, you would guess she is a local governor or someone of similar status. "Iktat Rek told me to expect you," she says. "We will evacuate civilians first, then the [defenders, warriors], then our [goods, possessions] if time is given. A [cohort, group] of civilians is prepared to depart already. Please escort them to <planet>." She turns away to speak to someone else. Apparently she is too busy to give you more details.
	(Leave her to her work, and prepare to escort the freighters.)
	"Could I assist you with the fighting, instead?"
	Surprised, she halts her other conversation and turns back to you. "It is not yet the [proper, strategic] time to fight," she says. "They come like a tide; we must fall back to higher ground where their waves will be [stretched, spent] in striving to reach us."
	You apologize for the interruption and agree to help escort the refugees to safety.
You drop off the Wanderer refugees. One of the Wanderer officials who is here to meet them tells you, "We are grateful for your [assistance, friendship]. If you are [available, willing] to help us further, go talk with Sobari Tele'ek, the military commander." The Wanderer official points toward one section of the spaceport where many Wanderers are busy loading supplies into some Wanderer ships unlike any you have seen before.
Drive off the Unfettered fleet attacking <system> to buy the Wanderers more time, then land on <planet>.
Tele'ek is a Wanderer military commander. It is not clear what his rank is or whether or not the Wanderer military is even organized enough for individuals to have ranks, but he has been placed in charge of holding back the Hai while the remaining Wanderer worlds near the front are evacuated.
The ships in this corner of the spaceport are indeed a new design, stockier and less streamlined than most Wanderer ships. Sobari Tele'ek, who turns out to be a military commander, greets you and says, "For the first time in ten thousand years, we have made ships [designed, intended] for war. How do you [view, judge] them?"
	"That's a beautiful design."
	"They look like very powerful ships."
	His pupils dilate and contract with some inscrutable Wanderer emotion. "They are ugly ships," he says, "[ungraceful, inelegant, crude], like all things of war. An [unfortunate, regrettable] necessity."
	As you are talking, his communication device beeps, and an urgent voice speaks to him in the Wanderer tongue. Tele'ek turns to you and says, "<planet> is under attack. We must [drive off, push back] the Hai for long enough to prepare more of our people to evacuate. Will you help us [fight, resist] them?"
	"Gladly."
	"Sorry, I don't want to assist the Wanderers anymore."
	"I am glad of your [help, company]," he says, "though not of our circumstances. My ships will follow you to the <system> system. There we must fight off the Hai until the next [convoy, fleet] is ready."
This Wanderer factory world was recently captured by the Unfettered Hai, who are now busy trying to repurpose the Wanderer factories and equipment that were left behind, to build more ships for their war fleets. The Wanderers did not have time to demolish any of their equipment or to carry it off-world before the planet was lost. As a result, they have given the Unfettered a significant technological advantage here.
The Unfettered seem to be quite at home in the tree house dwellings that the Wanderers left behind, and the Unfettered youth living here scramble up trunks and leap from tree to tree with reckless abandon, exulting in this new world they have captured and trying to outdo each other with their daredevil escapades.
Escort another fleet of Wanderer refugee transports to <destination>.
It appears that the very last of the civilians are ready for transport to <planet>; a large crowd is gathered in the spaceport, but nearly all the buildings are vacant. Incongruously, a few Wanderers are busy sweeping the sidewalks, watering plants, and making other efforts to tidy up the port, as if to make it as presentable as possible for the Unfettered when they land.
	Isai greets you and asks if she can ride along with you. "These are the last of the civilians," she says. "The [warriors, defenders] will remain behind until everyone is [safe, away], then they will join us on <planet>. But most important is that the transports reach <planet> unharmed. Will you escort them?"
	"I will. I'm sorry you have to abandon your home."
	"I would be glad to stay and fight, if you want."
	"You are strange," she says. "You are not the one who suffers [loss, indignity] here. You have no [right, reason] to desire to strike back. Is fighting a greater [delight, enjoyment] to you than the saving of lives?"
	"Okay, I'll help protect the transports."
	"Sorry, I just thought I could be of more use to you in helping to fight than in helping to retreat."
	"I [predict, foresee] you will have plenty of opportunity to help with the [fighting, violence] before this situation is resolved," she says, "but for now our goal is to [avoid, minimize] conflict until we can understand the Hai better."
	"Okay," you say, "I'll help protect the transports."
	"Thank you," she says. "As before, do not [wait, tarry] or join in the fighting. Just bring our people safely to <planet>."
Wanderer Meeting
Join the Wanderer leaders on <planet> for a meeting to discuss strategy against the Unfettered.
As the transports come in for a landing, Isai receives a message, which she passes on to you: "A council of leaders is meeting soon in our capital, and they have agreed to [permit, invite] you to join us because you are a [stakeholder, interested party] in this conflict. Can you transport me to <planet>?"
	"Sorry, I don't want to help the Wanderers anymore."
	"Thank you," she says. "We should go there quickly, so that we can decide our next [gambit, strategy] before the Hai attack us again."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Isai hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Waiting for the Eye
Figure out what controls the wormhole that the Wanderers call the "Eye," and try to find information on when it will open and where.
You land on <origin>, and Emeka'a Isai leads you to the building where the council of war is taking place. Sayari, the Hai diplomat, has also been invited, along with Iktat Rek and various other leaders. Rek looks even more bedraggled than before: his wings are drooping, and more of his feathers are out of place.
	It is not entirely clear to you who outranks whom in the meeting, or even what roles the different participants have. To make matters worse, you are uncomfortably reminded that your translator only understands the Hai language. Rek and Isai speak mostly in Hai so that you and Sayari can be included, but when the conversation gets heated they all switch into their native tongue, a cacophony of clicks and whistles.
	They are looking at a map of Wanderer space, and it's clear from their gestures that the discussion is about how far they can afford to retreat in order to form a more defensive position. Rek explains to you, "When the Eye opens, we must leave this [territory, space] anyway, so a retreat now will just position us better to [embark, journey on] when the time comes."
	"But what if the Eye does not open and you are trapped here?"
	"Do you know when the Eye is going to open?"
	"No," says Isai, "we do not. It may not open for another hundred [years]. The Eye is a thing of [myth, mystery] and it may not answer to our need. Which is why I say that where we choose to [take a stand, draw a line], we must [hold, defend] that place firmly."
	"That is my concern too," says Isai. "The Eye is a thing of [myth, mystery] and it may not answer to our need. We cannot afford to make plans [assuming, expecting] that it will open this year, or even in the next hundred years. So we must choose what we can afford to [lose, cede, give up] now, and [hold, defend] the rest of our territory firmly."
	The Wanderer leaders decide to begin evacuating four more of their worlds closest to the Unfettered, hoping that they will not be attacked until the evacuation is complete. If necessary, they will fall back to the Ap'arak system, immediately east of this one, and take their final stand there.
	In the meantime, the entire Wanderer strategy depends on where and when the mythical Eye will open, the portal that will carry them to their next home. As the only Wanderer ally with access to a jump drive, perhaps you will be able to answer that question.
You return to <planet> without any more information on who or what controls the Eye. Perhaps the answer is closer than you think.
You have collected some useful information on the nature of the "Eye." You should probably head to the spaceport and meet up with Iktat Rek.
This world is populated by the Pug, the same enigmatic species that recently invaded human space - and left without giving you any clear answers about why they did so. You already know that the Pug have the ability to control wormholes, so it's quite likely that they have something to do with the "Eye" wormhole that the Wanderers hope will open soon.
You return to this Pug world hoping to get a few more answers than they offered to you last time. As before, they seem peaceful enough, but most of them are acting as if you do not exist.
	After you've stood around for at least 20 minutes, one of the Pug walks over to you and says, "It appears to this one that the human is not intending to just politely return to its vessel and leave. Can this one help hurry the human on its way?"
	"I need to know: do you control the wormhole that the Wanderers call the Eye?"
	"The Wanderers are being attacked. They are dying. Do you care about them?"
	"We do," it says.
	"We care deeply," it says. "They are irreplaceable, and most useful to us."
	"You must open the Eye so that the Wanderers can escape from the Unfettered."
	"Can you tell me when you plan to open the portal?"
	"Must we, human? Must we?"
	You are beginning to draw a crowd. Two more Pug walk over. One is armed with a staff. The other says to you, "Tell the world-shapers, it is not yet time for the portal to open. They must prepare to fight. Now, go."
	"They aren't strong enough. They will be killed."
	"They must become strong enough," says the Pug with the staff. "They must remember how to fight."
	"No. They are peaceful people. Don't force them to make war. Don't force them to kill."
	The Pug do not reply. Instead, they start to walk away.
	"I demand that you listen to me."
	As you try to follow the group of Pug, the first one says to the others, "The human must like getting hit with the happy stick." The one with the staff waves it menacingly in your direction.
	(Keep insisting that they listen.)
	With a somewhat contemptuous gesture, the Pug points the staff toward your face and a wave of wonderful rainbow light washes over you and bathes the whole world in iridescent sparkles that leap nimbly from the whiskers of things and nuzzle into your contented consciousness like flashing minnows of pure joy. You caper off to chase a trail of floating soapy baubles that burst with the sound of wind chimes and distant trumpets as you touch each one and the smell of ripe peaches fills the air until you stagger through your airlock and throw up in a corner.
	It may be time to leave this planet.
Hai Assistance
Travel to <planet> with Ambassador Sayari and see if she can convince the Hai to help restrain the Unfettered from attacking the Wanderers.
To continue helping the Wanderers, you will need a bunk free for a passenger. Return here when you have space available.
You meet up with Ambassador Sayari and Iktat Rek and tell them what the Pug said. "The Keepers of the Eye speak [subtly, carefully]," Rek says, "and hide truths in the [shades, distinctions] of their words. What precisely did they say?"
	"It is not yet time for the portal to open. You must prepare to fight."
	"We must [make preparations, become ready] to fight," repeats Iktat Rek, slowly. He runs a claw through the ruffled feathers of his scalp, in something akin to the human gesture of scratching your head in confusion. Quite a few feathers fall out. "I see," he says, and his wings droop even lower than before. "I will tell the [war-chiefs, strategists] to tell the [builders, designers] that we must make more and bigger warships."
	"How can I help in the meantime?"
	Sayari says, "I have offered to speak to the Hai governors, to see if they can do anything to restrain the Unfettered from making further incursions into Wanderer space. Would you be willing to transport me to <planet>?"
	"Of course," you say. She leaves to gather some traveling gear and to meet you at your ship.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Sayari hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Unfettered Negotiations
Travel to the Unfettered military planet <destination>, and see if they will agree to give the Wanderers time to evacuate their worlds near the front.
After a long and tense conversation, Ambassador Sayari convinces the Unfettered war chiefs to let you land and meet with them.
The Hai's recently elected Council of "Elders" agrees to meet with you and Sayari and the two of you make an effort to avoid directing yourselves towards Teeneep. Your young friend's popularity as an Elder does not extend to inside these walls and, as Sayari quietly informed you beforehand, apparently Teeneep has not explained the nature of her sympathies towards the Unfettered, even to her oldest friends. It would be detrimental to your cause to specifically seek her assent here, on <origin>, for this matter. After you describe the situation with the Wanderers, one of the other elders who seems older and authoritative says, "We had heard rumors of this. The Unfettered have recruited thousands of new warriors by telling stories of planets for us to explore and colonize, and a cowardly and foolish enemy to defeat."
	Sayari says, "We must not allow the Unfettered to commit genocide in the name of the Hai people."
	Another elder responds, "But, we promised in the Frostmark Accords that we would not interfere in Unfettered space."
	"They have never kept their side of the treaty," says yet another of the elders, "and surely the prevention of genocide is enough reason to break ours."
	Teeneep responds, "You can hardly fault them for that; a treaty under duress is no treaty at all. No amount of begging or negotiating will convince them to stop their war. They recognize only strength, not the pleas of a coward. We must show strength, and so must the Wanderers. We should increase our fleets at Wah Ki, making ourselves more of a threat."
	Some of the other Elders nod in agreement, but a smattering of dissent is voiced loudly enough that the older Elder from before interjects, "Perhaps there are other suggestions we may consider?".
	"Could you threaten to cut off aid to the Unfettered if they continue their aggression?"
	"Could you launch an attack on the Unfettered, force them to fight a war on two fronts?"
	"I fear that would only drive them to further acts of desperation," says Sayari.
	"I will not authorize preemptive violence against our own flesh and blood," says one of the elders. "We only defend ourselves against them, never willingly initiate an attack."
	Teeneep and another Elder who seems to be in her corner both chitter the Hai equivalent of "Hear Hear" to this, though she is being very careful with her contributions.
	"Perhaps Teeneep is right and it would be enough merely to threaten them," says another of the elders. "We could gather a massive war fleet above Cloudfire. The Unfettered would need to muster a matching fleet above Darkcloak. It would draw many of their warships away from the alien territory."
	After well over an hour of further discussion, and with calculated backing from Teeneep, they reach the consensus that this is their best option. As you leave the meeting, Sayari exchanges a few words with Teeneep before approaching you, "And now, I would like to visit the Unfettered themselves. They will probably not listen, but perhaps we can talk sense into them. In any event, it is my job to try."
Return with Sayari to <destination>, and tell Iktat Rek that you had some success in convincing the Hai to interfere with the Unfettered.
The Unfettered war chiefs gather around General Choot'k to listen to Sayari's plea with condescending smiles on their faces. When she is done speaking, Choot'k says, "This is a war, not a polite dinner party. We will take what we want, when we want it. We are through with waiting on the charity of others."
	"But people will die, on your side as well as the Wanderers," says Sayari. "They are willing to give you these worlds if you only give them time, perhaps no more than a few months or a year. Why lose your lives to claim what will be yours soon enough?"
	"Better to die asserting our strength than to live with our hands outstretched to beg," says one of the chiefs.
	You are unable to convince them to change their plans, and as soon as the conversation ends General Choot'k insists that you leave their planet, "You were afforded a safe arrival here because of our history with the mighty Captain <last>, but now you must leave."
	"Beware! Our warriors in orbit are eager to test themselves against this famous human's strength," says one of the chiefs, laughing.
	As you and Sayari board your ship she mutters to you, "I was told to expect this, there's no need to stay and fight."
	You are unable to convince them to change their plans, and as soon as the conversation ends General Choot'k insists that you leave their planet, "You are a respected warrior Captain <last>, but now you must leave with this Fettered diplomat."
	As you and Sayari board your ship she mutters to you, "I was told to expect this, but it was only right to try."
Report to the Wanderer military base on <destination>, and see if there is anything you can help them with.
You have been gone for several weeks, and Iktat Rek's appearance has changed drastically in that time. Nearly half his head is bald, showing scaly gray skin and scattered white under-feathers in place of his usual plumage. Patches on other parts of his body have lost their feathers as well. His appearance is shocking. In a terrestrial animal you would attribute it to a mange... or to a molt.
	"What is happening to you? Are you ill?"
	"Are you molting?"
	Rek says wearily, "The doctors believe it is what you would call a cancer, what my people would call a [premature, non-viable] molt. If so it will kill me. But I hope it may be the true Molt, come earlier than the [stories, myths] claim is possible - for the Eye is not yet open."
	"You can't tell the difference between a cancer and the Molt?"
	"They are the same thing," he says. "Only the [outcome, result] is different. The Molt is a cancer so [successful, virulent] that it [consumes? displaces?] every cell in one's body. But since the first Unfettered attacks a [decade] ago, hundreds of Wanderers have undergone a false Molt. All of them have died. I may be a fool to hope that I might survive."
	"Well, I hope that your doctors are wrong to be so pessimistic."
	"Isn't there anything your doctors can do?"
	"They could try to kill the [mutant, cancerous] cells," he says, "but if it is the true Molt, killing it would kill my future, my [true form? destiny?]. And in any case, the treatment would weaken me and leave me no [strength, attention] to help my people in this time of necessity. So for now I choose neither to hasten nor to halt the [process, progression]."
	"Well," you say, "I hope for your sake that it is a true Molt."
	"Thank you," he says. "And now, if you are willing to help my people further, they have asked for your [assistance, expertise] on <planet>. Do not worry about me; I will [face, deal with] whatever future comes, when it comes."
	As you return to your ship, Sayari approaches you, seemingly having listened in on your conversation with Rek. "I too have been told that my presence has been requested on <planet>." She pauses for a moment before continuing. "And while this 'Molt' is a mystery to me, I hope that it may go well for your friend." You thank Sayari for the well wishes and get ready to leave for <planet>.
Unfettered ships of an unknown design have been spotted in the Prakacha'a system. Destroy them, then return to <destination>.
Sobari Tele'ek, the military commander whom you met earlier, greets you and Sayari when you land. "The human who enjoys taking part in fights!" he says. "And the Hai ambassador. I am glad you have come. We have two [pieces, items] of good news for you, human. The first is that we have decided it is [permissible? prudent?] to allow you to purchase our warships. That will include the new [ugly, brutish] one, the Tempest."
	"Thank you," you say.
	"The other news is even better!" he says. "We have [saved, set aside] a fight for you. Unfettered ships of unknown design have been [spotted, discovered] in the Prakacha'a system. I ask you to destroy all these ships, then report to me what their [capabilities, strengths] are. I will discuss the [situation? troubles?] of the Unfettered with Sayari while you are gone."
	You tell him that you will do your best. Now that you are able to purchase Wanderer warships, you should be able to match anything the Unfettered throw at you.
That was the last of the new Unfettered ships. You can now report back to Tele'ek on <planet>.
Tele'ek approaches you when you land. "I have [reports, word] that the Unfettered ships are still [present, alive] within Prakacha'a. Please destroy them all before returning."
Ambassador Sayari is concerned that the development of the Solifuge could become a problem for the Hai and has asked that you deliver a message to the council of elders on <destination>.
Tele'ek and Sayari listen carefully as you outline the strengths and weaknesses of the new Unfettered carriers. "I am not greatly [concerned, frightened] by tiny fighters," Tele'ek says. "The weapon that has done us most harm is their Ion Cannons, which no ship so small can [wield, carry]. But thank you for your assistance."
	Sayari looks more concerned about this information. "These carriers may not be an issue for the Wanderers, but this development could cause trouble for the Hai. I have written a message describing the situation." She hands you a data chip. "Please deliver it to the council of elders on <planet>."
	"Please be quick if you are to deliver this message now," Tele'ek says. "We have no other [fights, brawls] for you to take part in right now, but once you return here, you will find another evacuation fleet that needs an [escort, protector]."
Return to <destination>, where an evacuation fleet is waiting to be escorted.
You give the message from Sayari to the spaceport authorities so that they can deliver it to the council of elders. After the message has been delivered, the council requests that you meet with them.
	When you arrive on <planet>, you are quickly escorted from the spaceport to the council chambers.
	"Greetings again, <first> <last>," one of the elders says to you. "It is our understanding that our Unfettered brothers and sisters have created a carrier ship. How difficult was it for you to combat it?"
	"The carrier is strong, but not strong enough, and can be easily taken down."
	"It was easy for me, but I can't say it will be the same for your ships to combat."
	"It was a difficult fight, as the carrier is very powerful."
	The elders mumble among themselves about this information, periodically glancing down at what must be the message from Sayari detailing the Solifuge.
	"We gather a large fleet above Cloudfire," one of the elders says, "and shortly afterward the Unfettered unveil this new ship. Perhaps it is only right that we respond in kind with a ship of our own."
	"My son is an engineer," another elder says. "He helped create our Centipede and Geocoris ships, both as a result of the humans living among us. Perhaps he would be of assistance in creating a ship to respond to the Unfettered." The elder presses a button and leans over to a microphone. "Please bring Osen into the council chamber."
	A short while later, the elder's son enters the chamber and introduces himself to the council. They tell him about the Unfettered having created a carrier and the need for a new ship to be created as a response, and Osen's eyes go wide.
	Osen begins speaking very quickly in the Hai language, so fast that your translation device seems to barely be able to keep up.
	"I have [exactly, precisely] the ship! My team has been [developing, producing] a ship for many [years, cycles] that carries a [fleet, squadron] of drones. We have [working, functional] [prototypes, models], but they are not yet [finished, complete]. We are still [developing, producing] technology to repair the [hull, armor] of a ship in flight, which would make this ship and its drones much more [effective, powerful]."
	The device continues speaking to you for nearly a minute after Osen stops talking (which is a little awkward as everyone stares at you). "Sorry, I wasn't aware that you had a translation device," Osen says, no longer speaking in Hai.
	"It's alright."
	"You talk really fast."
	Osen shrugs and smiles at you. "I speak fast when I'm excited."
	"When is the earliest that you could provide these ships to us?" Osen's father asks.
	"It would only be a few weeks for us to have a number of prototype ships ready, but I highly suggest that we wait until we have created hull repair technology. If these Unfettered Solifuges do not have such technology, then having it will give our ship an advantage by being able to redeploy damaged drones, but we believe that we are still many years away from developing technology strong enough to be of any real use."
	The elders once again mumble among themselves. They continue to ask Osen a number of questions about this new carrier. How difficult is one to produce? How much does it cost? What are the capabilities of the drones? How useful would it be without being able to repair the hull of its drones?
	After having all their questions answered, the elders seem to be interested in the idea of Osen's new ship. "This hull repair technology indeed sounds necessary," an elder says. "We will provide what funding we can to help fast track its development."
	Osen's father turns to you. "You have traveled many systems, <first> <last>. Perhaps you might be able to help. If you know of any peoples who have such technology from elsewhere in the galaxy, should it exist, then perhaps we could meet with them."
	"I'm sorry, but I can't help right now. I need to return to the Wanderers."
	"I'd be glad to help. I'm sure I could find someone with hull repair technology that could help."
	"Sayari's message mentions that you are still needed by the Wanderers," Osen's father responds. "Perhaps you should return to where you are needed the most, but when you are able to help us, we will gladly accept it." The elders all thank you for bringing Sayari's message and bid you safe travels back to <planet>.
	"This is understandable," Osen's father responds. "Return to where you are needed, but when you are able to help, we will gladly accept it." The elders all thank you for bringing Sayari's message and bid you safe travels back to <planet>.
	"I'm sorry, but I'm busy right now."
	"This is understandable," Osen's father responds. "But we can be patient. Should you find time to help in the future, simply return to <origin> and inform the port authorities that you have what we seek, and we will meet with you again." The elders all thank you for giving them more information on the Unfettered Solifuge and bid you safe travels.
	"Wonderful," Osen's father responds. "Once you have finished looking, simply return to <planet> and inform the port authorities that you have what we seek, and we will meet with you again." The elders all thank you for giving them more information on the Unfettered Solifuge and bid you safe travels.
When you return to Wanderer space, you find four Wanderer ships that you've never seen before are parked near the spaceport. These must be the dedicated transport ships that Iktat Rek mentioned. One of the captains approaches you and says, "We are evacuating the worlds that will be [isolated, trapped] if the Unfettered gain more territory. Will you escort us to <planet>, and from there to the capital?"
	"Not now - I will come back when I am ready."
You've landed on <planet>, but not all of the Riptide transports carrying the refugees are in the system. Better depart and wait for them all to arrive.
Escort these transports carrying Wanderer refugees to their home world of <destination>, where they will hopefully be safe.
The Wanderer transports land in the spaceport and begin loading passengers. The village appears to be almost empty; all but the last few stragglers have already left. As on Varu Mer'ek before it was captured, they seem to have taken pains to leave their village as neat and tidy as possible. In similar circumstances, a human government would probably have chosen to burn everything of value to the ground rather than let it fall into enemy hands.
Escort these transports back to <destination>.
The transports offload the refugees, and one of the captains tells you that they are wanted back on <planet>. But now that you know that Iktat Rek may be dying, perhaps you should visit him while you are here.
	(Check in on Iktat Rek.)
	(No, I can always visit him next time I'm here.)
	You contact Rek, and he invites you to come visit him in the house where he is staying - a Wanderer tree house near the outskirts of the city. He looks even more tired than before, and the bare patches of skin are spreading. In a few places a new set of black, oily feathers seem to be growing in, but they are thin and hairlike - not enough even to cover his skin, let alone to allow him to fly.
	You sit and talk with him for a while. He is moving and speaking more slowly, but you are glad to see that his mind is as sharp as ever, and to pass the time he asks you all sorts of questions about human culture and history, which you answer as best you can. Eventually, you say goodbye and return to the spaceport.
	The transports finish unloading the last of the passengers, and get ready to follow you back to <planet>.
Drive off the Unfettered fleet attacking <system>, then land on <planet>.
Soon after the transports land, an alarm begins to sound and you see many Wanderers, the warriors in particular, rushing to board their ships. Sobari Tele'ek swoops down and lands next to your ship, and explains quickly, "We have detected a large Unfettered fleet [incoming, approaching]. Will you join in the defense?"
	You agree to help them, and begin preparing your ship for takeoff...
The Unfettered fleet has been driven off. Tele'ek thanks you for taking part in defending this world. "Unfortunately," he says, "I just received news that this was only half of the Unfettered [assault, attack]. An equally large fleet attacked the Chirr'ay'akai system, and overwhelmed the defenses there so [quickly, unexpectedly] that some of our people did not have time to [escape, evacuate] and have been forced into hiding. If you're willing to help rescue them, please meet me in the spaceport once I am done [debriefing, informing] the warriors."
The Unfettered clearly do not know quite what to make of the Wanderer research station here that they have recently captured. Animals that were once part of various experiments are now wandering loose, and the Unfettered are making only sporadic efforts to keep them well-fed. Every once in a while one of them, driven by sheer hunger, tries to smash its way into one of the crates of military rations that the Unfettered have stacked up in the shade near the main landing pad.
Wanderer Rescue
Some Wanderer warriors were left behind on <planet> when the Unfettered captured the planet. Land on the planet with two Wanderer warships, and rescue them.
Sobari Tele'ek explains the situation to you. "Nearly a hundred warriors were on the ground on <planet> when it was captured," he says. "They [scattered, evaded capture] and flew away from the spaceport, then regrouped in hiding in one of the forests. I'm sending two warships to land on the planet and [retrieve, rescue] them, and I'd like you to [join, accompany] them. Any questions?"
	"Why do you need me to take part in this mission?"
	He says, "It matters deeply to some of our people to know that a member of another species is [assisting, journeying with] us in this conflict. Not merely for [morale? public relations?] but because your [support? acceptance?] gives our [self-defense, struggle] [moral weight? legitimacy?]." Your translator seems to be having trouble with the exact shades of meaning in his explanation.
	You agree to join the expedition, and he introduces you to the captains of the two ships that will travel with you.
You have reached <planet>, but you will need to take off again and wait for both the Wanderer warships to be in-system as well.
Escort these two Wanderer warships, carrying rescued warriors from <origin>, safely back to <destination>.
The Wanderer warships come to a stop hovering above one of the largest forests on the planet. You see the flash of many different colors of wings as the Wanderer warriors who were hiding in the trees fly up to meet the ships, which open their airlocks to receive them. After less than five minutes, the Wanderer captains signal you that everyone is aboard, and you can return to <planet>.
Visit Iktat Rek
Return to <destination>, where Iktat Rek's condition has continued to deteriorate.
The Wanderers on <origin> are overjoyed that the rescue succeeded, and many of them thank you personally even though you feel like your role in the mission was rather minor. As the celebration continues, Tele'ek pulls you aside and says, "We must go somewhere [quiet, private] and speak."
	He leads you into what looks like an officers' lounge, and you sit down at a table. "Rek who was called 'Iktat' was your [designated contact? cultural guide? species companion?], yes?" he asks. You nod, although it's clear your translator doesn't know exactly what the word means. "Rek is very sick and needs [advanced, intensive] medical care," he says. "He desires that you be the one to transport him to the [hospital, medical facility] on Tik Klai. You must return to <planet> and meet him."
	"Okay, I'll go there immediately."
	"But, it's just the Molt. He'll be fine."
	"It is probably [beneficial, encouraging] for Rek to maintain that hope," he says, "but our [stories, myths] say that never before has a Molt been [viable, successful] if it began when the Eye was not open."
	You promise that you will go visit Rek as quickly as possible, and bring him wherever he needs to go.
Bring Iktat Rek to <destination>, where there is an advanced medical facility that can hopefully treat him.
You need a bunk free in order to carry Iktat Rek.
When Rek meets you in the spaceport, he is in the Wanderer equivalent of a motorized wheelchair. He has lost even more of his brown and gray plumage, and nothing but thin, withered, black feathers have grown in their place, like dark hairs growing from diseased skin. You are not sure if he has lost weight, or the loss of feathers simply makes him appear more gaunt. "I am glad you are here, <first> <last>," he says.
	"Don't worry, Iktat Rek. You'll make it through this."
	He winces when you say his name. "You must not call me that anymore," he says. "'Iktat' was my role-name, and I can serve in that role no longer. I am now known only by my core-name of Rek, or my child-name Rek d' Esta'a i' Veruk. If I survive the Molt, I will become someone new, and will receive a new role-name as well."
	"You're strong. I'm sure you will survive."
	"Do you have any idea what you will become?"
	"I hope so," he says, "but I cannot avoid overhearing the whispers of those around me. And the doctors say the Molt is rearranging and shutting down some of my internal organs. My primary hope now is just to live long enough to know that my people will have a future."
	"It is impossible to know," he says. "The Molt can make us not just a new individual, but almost a new species, with new abilities no Wanderers had before. I have some suspicions of what may be changing inside me, but I do not wish to invite ill fortune by voicing those hopes aloud."
	It is not until you have wheeled him halfway up the ramp into your ship that you realize something: throughout the entire conversation, Rek was speaking to you in your native language, without using the translator. You had not realized that Wanderer vocal organs could mimic human speech so perfectly.
	"Rek, when did you learn to speak my language?"
	He makes a sound halfway between a laugh and a cough, and says, "Even as my body decays, my mind has grown sharper. The more I listened to your box speaking to you, the more its words began to make sense to me."
	He seems too tired to answer any more questions. You make sure Rek is comfortable in one of your bunk rooms, then prepare to travel to <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Iktat Rek hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Visit Sko'karak
Rek asked you to visit the Sko'karak system, then return to <planet> and tell him what you found there.
A Wanderer hospital is not too different from a human one. You stand in a corner trying not to get in the way as they transfer Rek to a bed and connect him to various tubes and wires. Without his feathers he looks unbelievably fragile, almost skeletal, but the Wanderer nurses and doctors are handling him as gently as possible.
	Eventually you are left alone with him. For a while he seems to just be gazing off into the distance, his eyes unfocused. Then he seems to realize that you are here and his eyes take on a new depth and alertness as he turns to look at you. Again speaking in your own language, he says, "Go visit the Sko'karak system and tell me what you find there." Then he shuts his eyes and falls asleep.
You enter this system with high hopes that Rek, despite his weakened state, has sensed something significant happening here and sent you to discover it. But, your sensors pick up nothing out of the ordinary.
You've returned to <planet>, but you haven't yet entered the Sko'karak system to investigate. Better depart and make sure you visit it before returning.
Visit Sko'karak again
Rek asked you to visit the Sko'karak system again, and see if anything has changed there. Then, return to <destination>.
When you arrive, you can tell that the locals are agitated about something. Finally one of them switches into the Hai language and explains to you what is going on. "We have just heard that the Unfettered have [stolen, captured] three more of our worlds," he says, "but do not tell Rek the news."
	You visit Iktat Rek and tell him that you found nothing out of the ordinary in the Sko'karak system. He barely even opens his eyes as you speak to him. "Go back and look again," he says.
	"Okay, I'll go and look again."
	"You should know, another three systems were lost to the Unfettered."
	He sighs. "If the Eye would only open, it would not matter. I do not understand why the keepers of the portal will not open it and let us flee from this war into a place of safety. Go again to Sko'karak, and look."
You enter the system again, and do an even more detailed sensor sweep in case you missed something the first time. You find nothing.
Visit the Sko'karak system for a third time, and see if anything has changed there. Then, return to <planet> to report to Rek.
When you enter the spaceport, a white-plumed Wanderer who looks eerily similar to Rek comes out of the hospital to meet you. For a brief confused moment you wonder if Rek has indeed completed the Molt and is now standing before you healed, then she introduces herself as Melaka Esta'a, Rek's mother. "Rek is asleep," she says. "Do you bring good news?"
	"No, I found nothing."
	She says, "Rek's body is destroying itself [fighting, resisting] the Molt. Soon we must give him the drugs that will [disable, eliminate] his immune system and allow the new cells to finish their [conquest, invasion] of his body. For that treatment he must enter [seclusion, isolation] to protect him from infection. But he will not go until you bring him the [word, news] he awaits."
	"I will go back one more time and see if anything has changed."
	"Should I lie to him and say the Eye is open?"
	"No," she says, "go back one more time and look. If there is still nothing, we will [decide, consider] what to do next."
This time when you enter the system, your sensors pick up some strange astronomical phenomenon out beyond the orbit of the farthest planet, a wisp of light like a gathering raincloud. It's not a wormhole, but it is a change. Perhaps it will be enough to give Rek hope.
Help defend <planet>
Return to <destination>, where the Wanderers have chosen to take their stand against the Unfettered incursion.
You hurry into the hospital room. Rek's skin is now almost entirely bare aside from the withered, stringy black feathers that have grown in place of the once rich plumage. Rek's eyes spring open when you enter the room. "You have news," Rek says. "I can see it in your expression. What did you see?" Given how hard it is to read alien facial expressions, it would be quite remarkable if Rek could actually tell anything from looking at your face, but it would not be polite to say so.
	"Something has begun in the Sko'karak system, a cosmological phenomenon my ship's sensors did not recognize. It may be the Eye, beginning to open."
	"There is some sort of cosmological phenomenon, but it is not a wormhole. I do not want to offer you false hope."
	"It is the Eye," says Rek. "I am sure of it. It comes too late to save us from the great losses we have suffered, but perhaps not too late to preserve our species from destruction. So, my waiting is at an end."
	Rek calls to one of the nurses. The hospital bed is on wheels, and they quickly detach it from the various machines on the walls. Esta'a, Rek's mother, comes into the room and explains to you, "The room of [seclusion, isolation] is deeper underground. They will [wash, sterilize] Rek's body, then wait a week to check for any [residual, hidden] contamination, then begin to administer the drugs that will stop Rek's body from [fighting, resisting] the transformation. Even if all goes well, we will not see Rek again for a long time, and never again in this [body, form]."
	"Don't worry. Rek is strong enough to survive this."
	"Will you let me know what happens, regardless of the outcome?"
	"I will," she says. "Unless, of course, some great [calamity? upheaval?] befalls us and we are too caught up in other [matters, necessities]."
	Three Wanderer nurses come and wheel Rek's bed out the door and into an elevator. At Rek's request, you join them. The elevator opens up to a wide and vaulted hallway lined on either side by Wanderers dressed in black, come to pay their last respects to Rek. It is like something out of a dream: the subterranean passage dense with the stately forms of Wanderer officials, the black-cloaked wings and shadows contrasting with the bright linen of the hospital bed and the white plumage of Rek's mother as she follows the cart to the threshold of the isolation chamber.
	The door of the chamber snaps shut with a pneumatic hiss, and you make your way back up to the spaceport with the other visitors. One of the visitors is Emeka'a Isai, the former governor of Varu Mer'ek. She pulls you aside and says, "You should not [remain, dawdle] here, human. They will have need of you at the [front, battle line]. And the sight of you may be unwelcome to some of the [mourners? associates?] of Rek who are here."
	"Okay, I'll go to <planet> and aid in the defense."
	"Wait, why would people be angry at me after all I've done to help?"
	"Not angry at you," she says, "but some say the Molt is [triggered, provoked] by exposure to [alien, foreign] things: that your coming is what made Rek's body begin its [change, metamorphosis] too soon." She is silent for a moment, then says, "Please, do not be [concerned, grieved]. Rek may yet live, and rise to great renown as the first of a new [generation, race]. In any event, that is the past. Go, now, and help us to [secure, obtain] a future."
Defend <planet> from an Unfettered invasion fleet, then land back on the planet.
As you are coming in for a landing here you think you see a few Wanderer ships of yet another unfamiliar design, even larger than the Tempest. Their level of military technology has risen at an incredible rate since the Unfettered invasion began, even if it is true that they are just putting ancient ship and weapon designs back into production rather than inventing them anew.
	But the new technology cannot completely offset the fact that no living Wanderer has any real military experience. So, several of their leaders here are eager to talk with you, and you spend hours telling them stories from your recent experience in the war in human space. Sobari Tele'ek, the military commander, is among them. Your conversation is interrupted when sirens begin to sound in the spaceport. "The Hai are approaching!" says Tele'ek. "Please join us in battle, one more time."
You receive a message from Sobari Tele'ek: "We are [aware? incredulous?] of reports that you have [exterminated, eradicated] our Keepers in the Ap'arak system. This is unacceptable! From now on, you are no longer welcome in our [territory, space]."
Return to the Wanderer capital on <destination>.
After obtaining a sufficient number of jump drives, the Unfettered expanded into Wanderer space and managed to conquer six worlds from the Wanderers before their advance was stopped due to Pug interference.
The Wanderers here seem incredulous that they managed to drive off such a powerful Unfettered attack force. As you walk through the spaceport, many of them stop to thank you for your assistance in defending their home.
	Just as you reach the pavilion where the military leaders are gathering, a shadow falls over you, and you look up to see two ships approaching with the unmistakable horned silhouettes of Pug warships. Throughout the spaceport you hear Wanderer voices raised in excitement, and hundreds of them leap into the air to accompany the Pug ships to the landing pad. Sobari Tele'ek says to you, "It is a [visitation, appearance] of the Keepers! In our hour of [need, desperation] they make themselves known at last." A small delegation of Pug disembarks from the ships and approaches the pavilion on foot.
	"Let's hope that they offer you more help than they did last time I talked with them."
	"The Pug are dangerous and unpredictable. You should not trust them."
	"If they really cared about you, they would have intervened before so many of you died fighting the Unfettered."
	(Hear what the Pug have to say.)
	"The Keepers are [subtle, mysterious]," says Tele'ek, "but always their [intervention, action] has been for our [benefit, good]. Now be silent, and allow them to speak."
	The Pug delegation reaches the pavilion, and one of them begins speaking in the Wanderer language. You have no idea what they are saying, and they all seem to be ignoring your presence. A few of the Wanderer leaders respond. There's an awful lot of fanning of wings, flipping of tails, and preening of feathers going on. That might be the Wanderer way of trying to make a good impression, or else they're just feeling pleased with themselves. Or maybe they're nervous; it's hard to tell.
	The Pug finish their conversation with the Wanderers and return to their ships, and only then does Sobari Tele'ek turn to you and say, "Great news! They say that their two ships will [patrol, remain in] this system and [hold off, hold at bay] the Hai fleets. Also," he adds, preening himself, "they are very pleased with us for [growing, becoming] so strong. And, they say we need not [fight? worry about?] the Hai anymore."
	"I've fought Pug ships. There's no way two of them can stand against the entire Unfettered war fleet."
	"Does this mean they're finally willing to open the wormhole for you?"
	"Maybe they have grown stronger, too," says Tele'ek. "In any case, we are [safe, secure] here now, so we do not need your [help, protection]. Perhaps you should return to our capital and see if they need you there."
	Tele'ek's crest droops a little bit. "I suppose they did not make any [promises, predictions] about that," he says. "But in any case, we are [safe, secure] here now, so we do not need your [help, protection]. Perhaps you should return to our capital and see if they need you there."
	"Very well, I'll go check if they need me on <planet>."
	"You really think that nothing can go wrong here, just because the Pug have arrived?"
	You try to convince Tele'ek that the Pug may not be completely trustworthy, but it's clear you cannot change his mind. To the Wanderers, the Pug must have the status of gods; speaking against them is fruitless. Eventually you give up and agree to go visit <planet>.
A few minutes after you land on <planet>, a sudden uproar passes through the Wanderers in the spaceport. It's hard to be sure, but you think they sound excited, not frightened. Ships start taking off, more and more of them until the spaceport is almost deserted, and no one who is left seems at all interested in talking with you or explaining what is going on. You're probably going to have to return to your ship and see for yourself what all the fuss is about.
Individual
Outside the spaceport, you see someone performing maintenance on some sort of irrigation system. Once they get it working, it begins to water a field of plants.
A dockworker unloads complex scientific equipment from a ship. More surprising, however, is the fact that they unload several bags of fertilizer from it as well.
Group
A crowd has formed around an object. Upon closer inspection, it appears to be some sort of technological device.
On a booth near the spaceport, a group is playing on objects that look vaguely like wooden flutes. Their music is quiet and lacks a discernible melody.
Many buildings near the spaceport have plants growing on their roofs. An indignant squawk draws your attention to a Wanderer as they rapidly flap away from an automated watering system dousing them where they stood.
Group of Wanderers
While walking through the spaceport, you see several Wanderers flying through the air, about to land. They do not notice you, and you duck to avoid them.
As you walk by a group of Wanderers, they begin to coo and chitter at you. Evidently they have not seen something like you before.
A group of Wanderer children appear to be playing a game similar to hopscotch, but instead of hopping they fly to their spots.
Two Wanderers are at a table. They appear to be playing some sort of board game using shell pieces.
A crowd of Wanderer children follow an adult through the spaceport. The adult talks to them as they follow, as the children take notes.
Wanderer merchant captain
Wanderer captain
Wanderer civilian
Long ago, we [rebirthed, cleansed] a group of worlds in the south. I wonder if any [aliens, sentient beings] live there now?
It is a shame we must [fight, defend against] the Hai. I wish we had the opportunity to [engage, treat] with their peaceful brethren.
Alien societies [fascinate, interest] me. I [hope, desire] for more opportunities to meet with them.
I [wonder, ponder] how a human managed to get all the way here. Aliens in our [space, territory] are a [rare, precious] sight.
It is not often our [species, culture] gets to meet with so many [different, varieties of] aliens at once.
I have heard that Hai and human space are [linked, joined] with a wormhole. Could it have been made by [our caretakers, those that open the Eye]?
The Unfettered Hai enter Wanderer [space, territory] using jump drives. Where did they get such [devices, technology]?
Our species has [met, made contact] with many aliens before, but never so many at once.
Exploration is important for a society. If we did not move and discover new planets, we would have [stagnated, shrivelled] long ago.
I can [sympathize with, understand] the Hai. They have been [stuck, stagnant] in their own space for too long. It is only [right, natural] that they should want to [migrate to, leave for] new lands.
Wanderer linguist
Linguist
The Hai language is [complicated, convoluted], but learning it has yielded much [insight, knowledge] about the Hai in general.
It is difficult to [pronounce, speak] Hai words, because their [physiology, structure] is so much different than ours.
I went to a [prison, jail] where some Unfettered Hai were being held, in order to [study, apprehend] their language on a more [in-depth, detailed] level. It was hard to get [information, data] out of them, to say the least.
Wanderer worker
Wanderer traveler
Wanderer youth
Whenever I go on a [journey, trip] through space I always bring some of my [favorite, most cherished] potted plants. It gets [lonely, barren] when you are far from nature.
I have [heard of, known of] a human captain in Wanderer space, but seeing you is still quite [strange, odd].
I cannot [imagine, fathom] being unable to fly. How do you manage to get anywhere?
I wonder what kinds of [creatures, beings] live on your home planet.
With that jump drive, you must be able to [observe, witness] all kinds of wondrous life forms from across the galaxy. I wish I had such access.
One of my [friends, buddies] wanted to meet you, but was too [shy, scared].
While you are [here, present], you should try some of our [delectable, delicious] seed soup. It is a [filling, satisfying] meal after a long trip.
Wanderer scientist
Wanderer ecologist
Ecologist
I recently [traveled, journeyed] to another world on a scientific [mission, study], where we discovered a new species of plant. How [exciting, thrilling]!
The best part of my [job, task] is the thrill of [discovery, revelation].
Communication with your colleagues is [important, indispensable]. I learnt this the [hard, difficult] way when I did not mention that a new plant species I had [found, discovered] was carnivorous.
One of my [proudest, greatest] accomplishments was when I helped [nurture, grow] an almost-extinct species of insect back to a [viable, independent] population size.
With all the different species we have to [keep track of, document], it is easy to get [mixed up, confused]. A spiny-haired T'kai may be upon closer [inspection, study] a short-necked Kat'tchi.
Safety inspector
Wanderer safety inspector
My job is to prevent the [destruction, death] of that which we have sought to [renew, nurture].
The oil drillers have no [respect, regard] for the [life, existence] of this planet. Just yesterday I caught one [covering up, hiding] a spill that [affected, impacted] an estimated 328 blades of grass!
Oil rigger
Wanderer oil rigger
Many do not [like, appreciate] it, but my work is the [backbone, support] of this [society, civilization].
What I do is [unfortunate, regrettable], but we have no other [option, choice].
Wanderer farmer
We must preserve a [balance, order] when we plant our crops.
Compared to the [struggles, challenges] that our [ancestors, forebearers] faced when they were first brought here by the Eye, my problems are [inconsequential, nothing].
To be a good farmer, you must be able to [predict, foresee] possible challenges. Just a few [years, cycles] ago my crops were almost completely [destroyed, wiped out] by a drought whose signs I [ignored, overlooked].
You must not [override, dismiss] the natural [rhythms? balance?] of the land you work on. Doing otherwise would cause [harm, destruction] to that which [feeds, nurtures] you.
Wanderer soldier
Soldier
Wanderer conscript
Conscript
I wish we did not have to [fight, do battle] to survive. It is a [savage, inelegant] way of solving conflict.
I joined our new [defense fleet, navy] because I wanted to protect lifeforms. Instead I am [battling, killing] them. It brings me great [sadness, sorrow] to see such [destruction, waste].
I volunteered for service in a warship, and many [ask, ponder] why. For every Hai I [shoot down, kill] I save [many, multiple] civilians.
Just a few days ago I was asked to form a new [military, army] unit, even though I was given almost no [training, experience] in war. These are [desperate, hopeless] times indeed.
Our [commander, unit leader] used to be a zoologist. His only [combat, fighting] experience was defending himself against a rabid Chi'kta on an [expedition, study]. They couldn't find anyone [better, more suitable], so he got 'promoted.'
One of my crewmates is [scared, frightened] of the sound of guns firing. How he got conscripted is [anyone's guess, a mystery].
Many of our [commanders, leaders] have no idea how a military [works, operates]. They often have to consult history [books, records] so that they can [learn, study] the [workings, activities] of a proper army.
Wanderer engineer
The warships we have begun to [manufacture, build] are from a more [brutish, dark] time in our history. I hope that we are not headed towards such times [again, once more].
Despite their [savage, regrettable] purpose, the warships we have begun to [make, fashion] are impressive from a purely technological [perspective, view].
I regret that I must [recreate, unearth] technologies of [war, battle], but it is necessary for our [survival, existence].
I would like to [study, understand] human technology and its [capabilities, abilities], but I am not able to. Now that we must build [warships, battleships], all my time has been taken up by their [production, creation].
I create weapons of [destruction, annihilation] so that we may survive and go on to [create, rebirth].
Civilian
Pilot
Wanderer pilot
The Eye has opened in my [lifetime, existence]! I never dreamed of such a [miracle, wonder] happening for me to see!
The lands beyond the Eye shall bring a [rebirth? renewal?] to our species.
It is time for our [society, species] to move to new lands; the Eye have given us this [honor, opportunity].
The opening of the Eye is a sign that we must continue our [purpose? existence?] in a new [part, region] of this galaxy.
What [wonders, changes] await us at the end of the Eye!
I am honored to [bear witness? attest?] to this new phase of our cycle. The Eye shall [renew?, change?] us.
Now that the Eye is [here, upon us], I wonder if I'll [undergo, experience] the Molt. It would be a [honor, privilege] to be changed in this way.
Some of my feathers have [begun, started] to fall out, and I've been [noticing, observing] lumps on my skin. I [hope, wish] that it's the Molt.
The Korath have [enormous, gigantic] ships that many of them live on their whole lives. I cannot [imagine, fathom] doing the same.
Have you [seen, viewed] a Korath up close? They only have feathers on their neck. How [strange, odd].
The engines the Korath use have no regard for [efficiency, subtlety]. But I must admit, they are much more powerful than ours.
The Korath cannot pay [well, adequately] for their transport jobs, but they insist on paying [despite it, nonetheless].
I am trying to [learn, understand] more words of the Korath language. It is a difficult [task, undertaking], but it is important to learn the language of those who we are [undertaking, rescuing].
Have you been on a Korath [world, planet]? It is a [sobering, depressing] reminder of the importance of our [task, work].
I am [excited, overjoyed] to be part of [healing, renewing] the Korath worlds. We are once again [transforming, altering] the old into the new.
Many scientists are currently [studying, examining] the Korath language, and attempting to teach it to others. It is [exciting, satisfying] to be part of this [effort, undertaking].
We are still [figuring out, determining] whether or not a Wanderer who has not undergone the Molt could [learn, apprehend] the Korath language. The sounds in their [speech, tongue] are hard for us to [speak, pronounce].
Prot
Quim
Tsoop
Froid
Groip
Ploort
Schmar
Klar
Brek
 Kim 
 Wor 
 Moof 
 Plat 
 Del 
 Ben 
 Gred 
 Klort 
 Rep 
 For 
 io 
 el 
Glorf
Florp
Marg
Graw
Plog
Hort
Noor
Joop
Drap
Loit
The Pug
Our mission is to
Our calling is to
Our species will
We intend to
We only desire to
bring
promote
create
develop
stimulate
assist in bringing
aid the cause of
work for
bring about
healing
an end of conflict
an end to violence
an end to warfare
reconciliation
the end of violence
 in the galaxy.
 throughout the universe.
 among all sentient beings.
We are only a part of a larger whole
Our time has come
We are defeated, but the cause continues
leave us be to perish
continue fighting without us
worry not about us
have made
are making
have committed
are guilty of
are perpetrating
have chosen
are acting out
are perpetuating
a regrettable
an understandable
an unfortunate
a serious
a grave
an extreme
an ill-advised
an absurd
a foolish
a stupid
a crazy
a preposterous
an unwise
a bad
mistake
error
lapse in judgment
choice
decision
blunder
miscalculation
misstep
fault
misdeed
This is a formidable beam weapon, more damaging than even the most advanced energy beams that humanity has developed. Pug ships have integrated power plants that produce the considerable amount of energy that is needed to drive weapons like this one.
Mounted on a turret, this Pug weapon becomes even more devastatingly powerful. However, its energy requirements are higher than most human ships can support.
You have no idea how this weapon works. It requires no ammunition, but its energy-based projectiles have the ability to home in on a target ship.
This anti-missile system designed by the Pug draws a lot of energy, but its fast firing rate makes it twice as effective as anything that Lovelace Labs has been able to come up with. A ship with one of these turrets will be very difficult to hit with missiles.
This powerful anti-missile turret is capable of destroying even the strongest of missiles.
No one understands how the Gridfire Turret works, and the Pug aren't interested in explaining.
This is a small thruster designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This is a small steering system designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This is a medium-sized thruster designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This is a medium-sized steering system designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This is a large thruster designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This is a large steering system designed by the Pug. It is not quite as powerful as a similarly sized atomic engine, but it makes up for that by being almost as energy efficient as ion engines.
This semi-organic defense system is designed to release a highly lethal bioengineered virus capable of rapidly infecting any foreign entities present on the ship that it is installed on while leaving the crew of the ship unharmed. The virus, when combined with the defense system itself, is highly accurate at automatically determining friend from foe.
Though designed for planetary population control, the peacekeeping staff also works exceptionally well for ship defense. The staff emits a short-ranged beam that incapacitates anyone it touches by causing them to enter a euphoric and hallucinogenic state, wandering off to somewhere where they won't cause any trouble. Coming down from the state of euphoria is never pleasant.
The Zibruka is the smallest Pug warship that you know of. Despite having only two gun ports, its two advanced guns combined with its fast and efficient engine systems make it a fearsome ship to face off against, especially in swarms.
The Enfolta is a medium-sized Pug warship. It has a formidable armament of advanced weaponry supported by powerful integrated energy generation. A single Enfolta can take on multiple smaller human ships.
The Maboro appears to be the Pug's capital warship. Its shield matrix and hull are much weaker than human capital ships; however, it is able to regenerate its shields quickly. Its fearsome ordnance and advanced anti-missile defenses make it a ship that only the strongest human capital ships are able to oppose.
This is a Pug "tier 3" warship, intended for use in combat against either a species on par with the Quarg, or a lesser species that has decided to be particularly meddlesome.
You scan this planet's surface and pick up only a single, faint energy source. Cautiously, you approach it, and find an abandoned fueling depot: a ring of landing pads around a cluster of tanks of all different shapes and sizes. Some of the tanks must be cryogenic, because they are covered in ice. A few slow-moving insectoid robots are busy clearing off the ice and cleaning the tanks, but they do not appear to be armed and you see no sign of any other creatures or of any defense systems.
	You land your ship. Your sensors say the air is safe to breathe, but you wear a respirator just in case as you step off your ship and explore the depot. The spider robots pay no attention to you. From the fact that some of the tanks are covered in frost and others are not, you would guess that each one contains a different fuel, and each tank has dozens of different connectors branching off from it. With surprise, you discover that one of those connectors is the style used in human space, and you are able to use it to refuel your ship.
	Other than the robots and the fog swirling in the valley below you, there is no sign of life or motion here, and the air is uncomfortably moist and cold despite the hot steam rising up from a few nearby vents in the ground.
This world is populated by the Pug, the same enigmatic species that recently invaded human space - and left without giving you any clear answers about why they did so. Here, they appear peaceful enough, but they are ignoring you completely. Do you want to try to talk to one of them?
	(No, don't risk it.)
	You try to talk to several of the Pug who are walking by, but they do not respond or even look at you. If you stand to block their path, they step around you, and you determine by intentionally bumping into one of them that they are real and not just a holographic projection. From the brief eye contact that a few of them make before looking away from you, you get the feeling that they are intentionally ignoring you.
	The Pug are not terribly strong. You could probably grab one of them and demand that it answer your questions, without much risk of it hurting you.
	(Grab one of them.)
	You grab one of the Pug by the arm. "You need to give me some answers," you say. It begins to babble in a language you do not know, and a crowd of Pug gather around you. Eventually a few more of them arrive holding some sort of staff that they point at you menacingly, while shouting commands at you, again in their own language. It is possible that none of the Pug here actually speak the human language, in which case trying to communicate with them will be fruitless.
	(Let the Pug go, and walk away.)
	(Threaten to shoot them.)
	The moment you reach for your gun, one of the armed Pug fires a burst of light from its staff, and a warm, pleasant feeling washes over you - the most wonderful feeling you have ever experienced. In a daze, you begin to wander back to your ship, stopping occasionally to marvel at the things around you that you had not noticed before: the glittering of sunlight on the water, the sparkling drops of ocean spray hanging from the tips of sea marsh grass, the sky that has the bluest blueness of all the blues you have ever seen. It is all so beautiful that you start to cry. Once you reach your ship, you sit in the cockpit fascinated by the blinking lights on the control panel and unable to remember what any of them are for.
	A few hours later, the wonderful feeling is replaced by a wave of nausea and a pounding headache.
	You decide to play it safe and return to your ship. The Pug remain as enigmatic as ever.
Nearly a century ago, a Remnant scout exploring space north of the Ember Waste came under fire from an alien fleet armed with weapons that interfered with the scout's engines. The story says that the Remnant captain calmly told her crew, "We aren't going home until we steal that weapon." That alien technology became the basis of the Inhibitor Cannon.
	Although the Remnant appreciated the original weapon, they were disappointed that it was too big to fit on most of their ships. Instead of letting their effort go to waste, they instead opted to put their newfound knowledge to use creating a weapon suitable for their more nimble craft. Thus, the Inhibitor is excellent at controlling engagement distances, keeping targets at range by both pushing them backward with the impact of each shot while also slowing their approach by interfering with their engines.
While cannons that can interfere with a ship's engines are useful in any situation, the Remnant quickly decided that it would be even more useful as a turret that their ships could use to impede those chasing after them. These small Inhibitor Turrets are typically found primarily on Pelicans trying to outrun opponents rather than defeat them.
Although these turrets are unremarkable in terms of performance, the comparatively recent perfection of a technique of installing the bulk of the weapon itself externally on the turret mount instead of under the base has resulted in a weapon that takes comparatively little outfit space. It does, however, still add quite a bit more to the mass of the ship.
This weapon was originally developed in an attempt to reverse engineer a long-range energy projectile favored by an alien species that the Remnant encountered nearby. In the process they discovered that by adding more energy to the projectiles they could do a lot more damage in exchange for shorter range, and the Thrasher Cannon was born.
This turret mounts four Thrasher Cannons on a single rotating base. The resulting weapon deals a very satisfying amount of damage when fired from close range, especially against a slow-moving target.
Not long after the Remnant settled on Aventine, they began to discover caches of alien technology in vaults deep under the mountains, guarded by ancient but still-functioning point-defense systems. The Remnant learned how to duplicate those defense systems, and they are now considered to be much more useful than most of the items that they were guarding.
This torpedo can emit electromagnetic pulses, interfering with a ship's generators.
The EMP Torpedo Storage Bay is used to store extra ammunition for weapons that use EMP torpedoes.
	In addition to its ammunition capacity, the storage bay can also contain a small amount of charge, enough to let an otherwise battery-less ship fire EMP Torpedoes.
Electromagnetic pulse weapons were developed by the Remnant during the early days of their colony, when they were living in fear that the Alphas would overrun human space and expand beyond it.
This canister contains everything required to assemble a Teciimach Torpedo. These weapons emit strong electromagnetic pulses which interfere with a ship's generators and neutralize a portion of their energy.
	Unlike the previous generation of "EMP Torpedoes," the Teciimach torpedoes actively shape their emission pattern to avoid impacting their allies.
The Teciimach Canister Rack is used to store extra sets of components, both to expand the capacity of a ship, and on carriers for resupplying fighters.
	In addition to its ammunition capacity, the storage bay can also contain a small amount of charge, enough to let an otherwise battery-less ship assemble Teciimach Torpedoes.
Electromagnetic pulse weapons were originally developed by the Remnant during the early days of their colony, when they were living in fear that the Alphas would overrun human space and expand beyond it.
Centuries later, the Teciimach revision includes a range of upgrades to their effectiveness, efficiency, reliability, and safety. The Remnant attribute these improvements to a mix of the latest research and secrets uncovered by Warren research teams.
While originally developed as a heavy weapon to paralyze enemy capital ships, the Remnant have utilized on-the-spot assembly techniques to support their use on smaller ships. These pods sacrifice multiple assembly systems in order to fit them onto interceptor-class vessels.
	Despite this explanation, a careful examination of these bays and pods suggest that there is much more here than their volume would suggest.
The Ember Wastes are an anomalous region subject to forces that defy conventional physics: Energy spontaneously pouring from the vacuum, material density far greater than one would expect to find in space - even around a nebula, a concentration of wormholes unheard of in the galaxy, and regions where the universe itself seems to be in flux. This region, more than any building or ship, is the Remnant laboratory where they study the deepest workings of the universe.
	When asked to clarify whether the name refers to either ripping or crying, the technician looks at you with a curious expression, and replies 'both.' They then go on to explain that a very simplistic explanation for this weapon is that it is making micro-tears in the fabric of space-time, then cauterizing them together again. Should not the Ember Wastes cry at the necessity of such weapons?
	These massive weapons require special hardpoints, and are built in such few number that the Remnant distribute them directly on an as-needed basis. Due to the prodigious energy and fuel requirements, only the most massive of Remnant ships can support regular use of these weapons.
These crystals, mined on the Remnant planet Viminal, can store a surprising amount of power in a compact form. Crystals pure enough to be used in such a manner are hard to find, however.
	The capacitors tend to leak small amounts of energy in the form of excess heat. This leaking of energy also results in a quicker dissipation of ionization, granting ships with these crystals some resistance against the occasional ion storms that occur in the Waste.
This quite compact radiothermal generator uses isotopes so radioactive, and so tightly packed together, that it could almost be classified as a nuclear reactor.
	Although not very impressive in terms of how much energy they produce, Remnant generators have been designed to better handle the energy draining effects of ionization.
Efficient Remnant technology ensures that nearly all the heat produced by this generator's radioisotopes is converted into electricity instead of becoming waste heat.
	The Remnant took the ion dissipation effects of the crystals found on Viminal and replicated them for their generators in order to help survive the hostile environment of the Ember Waste.
The early Remnant engineers did not trust the finicky and unpredictable nuclear reactors that were then in use in human space, so they instead focused on perfecting the art of radioisotope thermoelectric power.
	The ion resistance on all Remnant generators not only allows them to bounce back from ion storms more quickly, but also gives their ships a window of time when an ion storm starts where they are not affected, giving them a chance to escape before becoming debilitated by the storm.
This cooler is actually just one of the power-generating elements of a Millennium Cell, but wired so it can run in reverse: consuming electricity in order to transfer heat from a ship's systems to its exterior.
The Ember Waste is the sort of place where only a very foolish captain would travel without some sort of device for replenishing hyperspace fuel. While this risk is non-existent in Remnant ships due to their 'gills', which are effectively built-in ramscoops, some captains prefer to speed up the process by adding additional capacity. For the rare captain braving the area in non-Remnant ships, this ramscoop is not particularly powerful, but it allows a ship to explore without fear of getting stranded.
While these were once considered cutting-edge outfits, their lack of autonomous capabilities and economic benefit ensured they were never licensed by a manufacturer.
	Despite this, some captains commissioned these directly from their inventor, effectively replacing one of their crew members with a robotic counterpart. These captains found that androids possessed sufficient capabilities to perform most work, but lacked the capability to captain a ship or take part in boarding actions.
From the very beginning, the Remnant have relied on their ability to study everything they encounter. This knowledge has enabled them to survive and even prosper in the harsh environment of the Ember Waste. To enable this pursuit of knowledge, the Remnant designed this compact laboratory that is built onto the side of a cargo bay, mess hall, or other larger room. When the room isn't otherwise occupied, this module expands out to convert it into a fully fledged laboratory.
	While planetbound scientists might consider it little more than a closet packed with scanners and equipment, to the Remnant it is a base of operations used to investigate alien and stellar phenomena on-site. For captains, having advanced equipment to support their sensor suites as well as a trained scientist to serve in their crew amount to a strong benefit.
This precious artifact attunes a ship's quantum oscillations in a way that allows it to travel through certain otherwise impassable wormholes in the Ember Waste. The stones are rare and valuable, because they can only be mined from one location in the Waste.
When the Remnant unraveled the alien Point Defense Turrets guarding the vaults on Aventine, they also deciphered the mechanisms that guided the ancient weapons. After significant investments in research and development, they have transformed those guidance systems into sophisticated scanning technology.
	While all Remnant ships are equipped with internal scanners, some captains still prefer to boost their range and power to more effectively select enemy ships worth targeting.
The Remnant live in an environment where the raw materials for fuel are relatively common on the winds of the nebula. As such, their ships incorporate significant built-in ramscoop technology, and while they are reluctant to waste fuel, they aren't afraid of using it when needed. Far more important is the ability for their ships to quickly and efficiently enter or exit combat as needed. At the end of the day, it is continued life that is paramount.
	The Bellows-Class Afterburner embodies this philosophy by providing captains with a tool that allows them to make great leaps of acceleration, typically during evasive maneuvers or to catch up with a fleeing target. Due to their enormous fuel usage, only the most specialized of ships have enough fuel to use these for more than a few seconds at a time before completely running out of fuel.
This tiny set of engines was designed specifically for craft so small that it combines both thrusters and steering into one unit.
These small but powerful engines are driven by ionized gas propelled at a sizable fraction of the speed of light.
The Remnant have taken the basic ion thruster design that has been used by humanity since the dawn of spaceflight and made it significantly more powerful... but also more power-hungry.
It is not unheard of for a Remnant ship's engines to draw even more power than its weapon systems: an indication, perhaps, of their preference for avoiding battle when possible.
This steering system is tiny enough to fit in even an interceptor, but the Remnant mostly use them to provide an extra bit of maneuverability for their larger ships.
This unusually power-hungry steering system packs a lot of power into a relatively small space. It seems that engine technology has progressed more rapidly for the Remnant than it has for the rest of humanity.
It's unclear whether the Remnant's powerful engine systems are purely their own invention, or whether they are partly inspired by alien technology.
The Tuning Rifle uses sound waves to destabilize the weaker internal tissue of many races and liquefies them.
The Remnant made a significant number of these weapons during the early years of their research on the void sprites, but have not been able to make any new ones since the Archon stopped their harvests. Without a supply of new tentacles to use, the Remnant have been unable to manufacture more. While durable, they rarely last more than a decade, so even the best cared for of the old Void Rifles degraded into uselessness centuries ago. These highly effective weapons are credited with helping the Remnant safeguard their refuges from ground-based threats during their early years.
	When fired, the Void Rifle emits a beam that has a strong paralyzing effect on the nervous system. With an area of effect that penetrates walls and other solid objects, it is an incredibly effective weapon.
This is nothing more and nothing less than a cubic meter of void sprite parts. To the Remnant, this represents both a terrible occurrence and a dreadful opportunity.
	This could have been very valuable to someone who knew what they were doing, if it had been handled properly. Instead, it is worth little more than the value of the compounds contained within.
The prefects have reached a consensus that you should be considered a valuable friend of the Remnant, and shall be given permission to purchase their ships and technology.
The prefects have decided that you should be trusted with their largest ships, and the valuable resources that go into making them.
Follow-up Observations
Plume would like you to do a follow-up visit to the planets in Nenia.
The Remnant researcher has another job for you, but you're going to have to free up <tons> cargo space in order to take it on.
A familiar face is waiting for you as you step into the crowded spaceport on Aventine. "Captain <first>!" signs Plume. "I have been hoping you would stop by." He gestures for you to sit down on the bench next to him.
	"Now that most of the cocoons have been returned, I would like you to return to Nasqueron and Slylandro to observe the void sprites' behavior. It is my hope that we can gain far greater insight into their life cycle."
	"Sure, I could do that."
	"Not right now, but I could later."
	"How much will I get paid?"
	"Once the research is published, you will receive one million credits."
	"I accept."
	"Excellent. As before, please visit both Nasqueron and Slylandro, record the void sprites there, and return here."
As you scan the system, the first thing you notice is that the void sprites' behavior seems different: there are fewer of them flying around, and the few that you see seem to be almost timid - floating quietly, and dropping down into the cloud deck whenever your ship moves towards them. You recall that Plume asked you to visit both planets.
The void sprites here prove to be elusive. You spend quite a while chasing radar signatures before you finally manage to get a small flock of them into visual range. You record them from a distance for several minutes, until they suddenly disperse into a storm and vanish.
Disappointed in the void sprites' behavior, you deliver the recordings to Plume's lab without fanfare. Plume quickly takes and reviews the footage before making a gesture that you think means "curious dejection." Then he seems to notice something, and resumes his usual intent bearing.
	"Here, look!" He rewinds the recording and gestures curtly at the projection in front of you. "There. That one is injured. Some kind of burn in a long, straight line." He zips through the footage further. "And here, a scattering of scorch marks." He looks up at you and snaps out a series of gestures: "This is outside my expertise; I will need to consult an expert. Meet me in the spaceport in an hour."
Eliminate Korath Ship
Plume ordered you to eliminate the Korath ship in the <waypoints> system.
You arrive in the spaceport to find Plume pacing quickly along a walkway. He gestures a quick greeting and jumps straight to the point. "We have never seen marks like these naturally appear on void sprites, but they match the weapon scoring patterns we have seen delivered by Korath ships. As such, we believe the Korath have begun hunting void sprites."
	He looks at you with a surprising amount of vigor. "I will not have our work ruined by reptilian warmongers. Destroy the Korath hunters responsible, then we can continue the research."
	"Okay, I will destroy the Korath hunters' ship."
	"Do you have the authority to order that?"
	He nods curtly. "I do not have the authority to raise a fleet or order a captain to destroy the ship, but I can declare this Korath a threat to Remnant interests. It is up to you to decide how to respond to the identification of that threat."
	(Accept his explanation.)
	"Could you explain?"
	"While the Remnant have an all-encompassing hierarchy to ensure everyone answers to someone, we saw fit to keep all facets of our society merged to prevent fragmentation into 'civilian' or 'military' branches. Two aspects of this merging are the decision of when to invoke military force and what amount of force is worthwhile. According to my position as a researcher, I have the authority to designate something a threat to my projects or to the Remnant as a whole. I could even order someone to act on it. However, given that I am of low status in terms of military proficiency, I cannot dictate the magnitude of the military response, and I am subject to being overruled by those with higher military qualifications."
	"In our particular situation, I have higher xenobiology qualifications than you, so I can dictate to you, and most other xenobiologists, for that matter, that protecting the void sprites is a priority. However, you are more skilled at combat and military matters than I am. Therefore it is your decision as to how important it is relative to other military tasks. Likewise, it is your decision as to what amount of force is required, tactics used, or other such military considerations."
	"This is one of the aspects that set prefects apart: they are Remnant who have demonstrated excellence in their field, sound judgment across a variety of fields, and an affinity for balancing a multitude of demands on Remnant resources. Humility is also a requirement, as they must always recognize that while their particular combination of skills may be unique, there is always someone else who is better than them at any one thing. As such, prefects are the adjudicators in determining the priorities of our various tasks and the leaders who keep the Remnant unified."
	"Thanks for the explanation!"
	"I thought prefects were specialists."
	"Well, they are and are not. Most prefects are assigned particular tasks that they are expected to devote themselves to. Often, this task relates to their area of expertise, but it is not always the case. Generally speaking, a prefect is considered to be the ultimate authority on tasks that they have been assigned to, but they are expected to take into account the suggestions from other prefects and the specialists in the fields relevant to the task.
	"Given your own skills, I suspect that the prefects you are most likely to interact with would be Prefect Chilia, who coordinates the military defense of the Remnant, and Prefect Taely, who integrates our latest innovations into usable ships."
	"Thanks! That was more detail than I was expecting."
	"Okay, that satisfied my curiosity for now."
	"Excellent. You deal with the Korath, and I will file a report about this threat. Please inform me immediately once you have taken care of it." He pauses, then continues, "Oh, and remember to record the battle. It may be useful in understanding what they are doing there."
As you spot the Korath hunters, you recall Plume's request and tap the "Record" button as your ship prepares for combat.
You have destroyed the Korath hunters. You can now return to <planet> to collect your payment.
When you return to <planet>, you find Plume waiting for you. He eagerly reviews the recording of the combat. "Thank you for eliminating this hunter-" he is interrupted by a flashing light on his commlink. He briefly reads something, and then looks back up to you. "Apparently, something about the Korath hunting the void sprites has concerned the defense prefect. Chilia has requested that you meet with him on Caelian immediately."
Go to <planet>
Prefect Chilia left a message with Plume asking you to meet him on <destination> immediately.
Search for the Korath
Prefect Chilia has asked you to track down a Korath fleet before returning to <destination>.
The <ship> has barely come to a rest on its designated pad when your panel begins blinking with a request for permission to come aboard. A glance at the viewscreen shows a fit young man with a military bearing standing at your airlock. You quickly check with the starport control and confirm that the prefect in charge of Remnant military activities is indeed waiting to board your ship. You hit the unlock button and watch as Prefect Chilia strides onboard.
	"Greetings, Captain <first>," he signs. "I am Prefect Chilia. I have the nominal responsibility for the overall defense of Remnant space and military operations." He smiles deprecatingly. "I say 'nominal' as virtually all our activities are military in some way, but usually fall under the purview of those who better understand them."
The <ship> has barely come to a rest on its designated pad when your panel begins blinking with a request for permission to come aboard. A quick glance at the viewscreen shows Prefect Chilia standing at your airlock. You quickly hit the unlock button and watch as he strides onboard.
	"Greetings, Captain <first>," he signs. "You seem to have a knack for finding things of importance to us. I am glad, however, that you and Plume discovered this."
	His gestures take on an abrupt cadence without many of the normal connecting movements that you are accustomed to. "Now, for the task at hand: it seems the Korath have discovered the void sprites and shot at enough of them that almost all have retreated into the depths of Nasqueron and Slylandro. There are military implications of the Korath harvesting void sprites, and we must take steps to prevent this from happening.
	His gestures take on an abrupt cadence without many of the normal connecting movements that you are accustomed to. "Now, for the task at hand: It seems the Korath have discovered the void sprites, and shot at enough of them that almost all have retreated into the depths of Nasqueron and Slylandro. You are aware of the potential military implications of the Korath harvesting void sprites and must realize the importance of stopping this.
	"It is imperative that all the Korath involved in this exploration be located immediately. According to our surveillance, that ship was part of a fleet that recently passed through Parca. Locate the fleet and report back."
You've destroyed the Korath fleet that was harassing the void sprites.
You have located the Korath fleet. They do not seem to be going anywhere at the moment.
This time, as you complete your post-flight checks you spot Prefect Chilia exiting the Starling next to you and watch as he strides across the pad to your airlock. You hit the open button as he clambers up the ladder. Without a word you pull up the sensor logs from Aescolanus, highlighting the position of the various ships. His eyes flit over the display for a moment, then he nods.
	"I will notify a task force. Meet me in the spaceport, and make sure your ship is ready to fight."
	As he departs from your ship, your commlink beeps with a message that an organization by the name of "Remnant Logistics" has allocated you an additional <payment>.
	"You have demonstrated good initiative; however, I suspect that it was not the only hunter fleet out there. I will notify a task force. Meet me in the spaceport, and make sure your ship is ready to fight."
Destroy Korath
Prefect Chilia has asked you to eliminate the Korath fleet before returning to <destination> by <date>.
When you arrive in the spaceport, you find Prefect Chilia in the middle of briefing a group of Remnant. He waves you forward as soon as you approach and introduces you to the briefing. "Everyone, this is Captain <last>, who has located the Korath hunters twice now and will take the lead on tracking the rest for this mission." As you cross the room to join him, you take a good look at the group. One detail that stands out to you is that every one of the Remnant in this group is wearing a thick leather wrap around their necks, which extends up to their hairline. The leather has a scaly texture, and it appears to be pulsing faintly. Unfortunately, you do not have time to ask questions, as Chilia has not stopped issuing instructions.
When you arrive in the spaceport, you find Prefect Chilia in the middle of briefing a group of Remnant. He waves you forward as soon as you approach and introduces you to the briefing. "Everyone, this is Captain <last>, who has located the Korath hunters twice now and recently destroyed part of their fleet. The Captain will take the lead on tracking the rest for this mission." As you cross the room to join him, you take a good look at the group. One detail that stands out to you is that every one of the Remnant in this group is wearing a thick leather wrap around their necks, which extends up to their hairline. The leather has a scaly texture, and it appears to be pulsing faintly. Unfortunately, you do not have time to ask questions, as Chilia has not stopped issuing instructions.
	He turns to you. "These are the captains who will be following your lead. They are flying two Albatrosses, two Ibises with full complements, and six Starlings. One of the Albatrosses is outfitted to act as a shield; let it take the brunt of attacks." He pauses, looking around at the group. "This task force would be overkill for the intended target, but we are not taking any chances: make sure every Korath there is killed. Salvage is secondary: priority is making sure there are no escapees."
	He steps back and looks at the group. "May the Embers burn bright for you." With that, he gives the group a respectful nod and walks away. The captains all look around and make various signs you think are probably encouraging combat pilot slang and variations on Prefect Chilia's parting words. As they disperse to their ships, one gestures to you. "Lead on, Captain."
You have destroyed all the Korath that appeared to be hunting void sprites.
The Korath fleet is gone. Given the urgency Prefect Chilia put on this mission, the onus is on you to find it... Quickly.
You have found the Korath fleet. Time to destroy them all as Prefect Chilia requested.
The task force streams back into <planet> without fanfare, its ships settling onto their landing pads with a sense of satisfaction. Within seconds, mechanics are climbing the hulls, and engineers drop from the ceiling on tethers to inspect the engines. Batteries are plugged in, fuel lines connected, and carts with replacement weaponry roll in. As always, the first responsibility of every captain is to ensure that their ship is ready to return to space for whenever it's needed. As the first footsteps echo on the hull of the <ship>, you switch the ship into maintenance mode before heading to the spaceport.
Transport Plume
Pick up Plume on <stopovers> and bring him to <origin> by <day>. Prefect Chilia wants to consult him about the void sprites.
You find Prefect Chilia and the rest of the captains gathered in a small side room off the main cafeteria. Everyone is digging into their customarily enormous meals while the prefect works the room, talking with everyone. As you pull up a chair, Chilia appears next to you and slides a tray in front of you. "It might not be the sort of fare you are used to from the ancestral worlds," he says, "but it is what we have to offer." Chilia looks around at everyone eating in muted conversation. "It is something of a tradition to eat a meal together when returning from battle. Share memories of those who fall, talk about why they fell, and what we must do differently next time." He eats a few bites from his own plate.
	"So, what should we do differently next time?"
	"A few more Albatrosses would have been great."
	"The EMPs kept getting in the way."
	"I think that went fairly well, actually."
	He writes something on his notepad. "I appreciate the feedback." He pauses and sips from his glass. "Now, moving forward, we need to know what the Korath are doing. Beyond the obvious of killing void sprites and picking fights with the Archon, the Korath are a cunning foe, and they would not antagonize the Archon for no reason," he says.
	"I have to look into a few things here. In the meantime, please go pick up Plume from <stopovers> and bring him back. We need him to be here for a briefing before <day>."
Plume is waiting for you at the landing pad. Once you have given the all-clear and opened the doors, he boards with little fanfare. "Thanks for dealing with the Korath, Captain <last>. They had me worried." With that, he settles into a bunk and starts reviewing his notes.
As soon as you land, Plume scurries off to find Chilia. By the time you finish your shutdown checks and head to where the meeting is taking place, you find that Plume has almost finished the briefing already. You catch the last few minutes summarizing what materials might be concentrated within the void sprites and his speculation that the Korath may have decided that these semi-processed resources are useful to their survival, despite the hostility of the Archon.
	After a few minutes of questions and answers about void sprite physiology and speculation by the assembled Remnant pilots, Chilia calls for a recess. "We will reconvene shortly to discuss the implications of this, but there are tasks to be done in the meantime. Captain <first>, meet me in the spaceport."
	As everyone disperses towards the spaceport, your commlink notifies you that you have received what the message terms "a resource offset allotment of <payment> from Remnant Logistics."
Take Plume to <planet>
Plume wants to witness firsthand what is going on in Nenia.
In the starport, Prefect Chilia and Plume are gesturing at some details on a datapad when you approach. Chilia notices you first and waves you over. "Thank you for joining us. While I put together some more long-term plans, could you take Plume to <planet>?"
	"Why do we need to go back?"
	"Let's go."
	"Recordings and sensor readings are useful data, but they don't really compare to actually seeing what is going on and experiencing the data firsthand." says Plume. "There aren't too many opportunities to do it in my line of work - especially when my expertise is needed by others who would rather not spend their time watching wildlife. But I digress."
	With a respectful bow to Chilia (who returns it equally respectfully), Plume heads for your ship. "I will be waiting onboard for you, Captain."
Descending into the clouds of Nasqueron is becoming almost familiar to you. Wispy layers of gas give way to more voluminous formations and the occasional turbulent storm. Beside you, Plume is eagerly peering out the window, and you remind yourself that this may well be his first time actually seeing void sprites on their world.
	You reach the altitude where void sprites have previously been found in the greatest concentration before activating your ship's sensors. Plume looks around, peering out the windows. "Where are they? Aren't there usually some around? They always seemed plentiful in the recordings." You focus on the sensors, and after a few minutes pick up some distant contacts. You follow them down into the lower atmosphere and eventually begin to detect some void sprites.
	"That's close enough, Captain," says Plume. "I will go outside and watch them from the hull." You help him into a pressure suit and cycle the airlock behind him. You quickly suppress a brief feeling of disappointment. "This is, after all, Plume's job," you say to yourself as you settle back into your chair to wait for him to return.
Return Plume to <planet>
Plume wants to check his records of the research on void sprites to verify some information.
Plume returns to the ship after several hours, spurred by alarms in his suit warning you both of low oxygen levels. As you help him out of the pressure suit, he looks like he is having trouble deciding if he should be thrilled or worried.
	"It is wonderful to be here, watching them from a distance. A few did venture close, too. But I'm worried about them. Some of the void sprites out there have scorch marks similar to the scoring left by Korath weapons. And we already noticed that they are hiding much deeper in the atmosphere than normal." He glances down at his datapad then back up at you. "Once we are back into the chaos of the Ember Waste, I will send Chilia a signal. It looks like I will need to double-check my records and samples back on Aventine. Please take me there."
As you approach Aventine, Plume gestures toward the pad closest to his lab. "You might as well set down there. If the samples in my lab check out, I will have another mission for you right away. You will need to keep your high-pressure ship active for this one. Stop by the lab in an hour or two and we will be ready to start loading."
Transport engineer to <planet>
An engineer working for Plume needs transportation for himself and some equipment to <planet>.
Plume's engineer needs a free bunk and <tons> of cargo space for his equipment. Come back when you have enough space.
A technician that works with Plume, and a talented astrobiologist. Gavriil is the project lead for the repurposed Esquiline station.
You walk into Plume's lab and are greeted by a large stack of crates and equipment. Plume and another Remnant are gathered around the stack, checking items off a list. "Ah, <first>! Good timing. We were just finishing the inventory of supplies that need to go on this delivery." He gestures to the engineer. "This is Gavriil, one of our best technologists and a skilled astrobiologist in their own right. They will be going with you."
	"It will be a pleasure to work with you," signs Gavriil, making a short bow. "We will be traveling to a research station on <planet>. Yes, it is a gas giant." They smile at that. "I have to get some equipment set up and get the core systems online. There will be a few more loads of materials afterwards." They look askance at you. "Shall we get started?"
Gavriil gives you precise directions to a set of coordinates that your sensors tell you is an empty area, and when you reach the designated spot, you see a small station shimmering out of the clouds.
	"We never managed to actually cloak the station," the engineer explains, grinning. "But we managed to hide it very effectively against every form of scanning we knew of. We even managed to give it a cloak-like field that renders it mostly transparent."
	They nod approvingly. "It's rather impressive what my predecessors managed to do with what they had back then."
	"Let's get on with it."
	"Well, this place is fairly old. It was built shortly after we learned how to build Starlings - which is where we learned of the troubles of extending the cloaking field beyond small ships. I don't know the mechanics behind it, but it has taken close to two centuries of study and development for cloaks to be feasible on large ships. We had plenty of Puffins back then, and the techniques for building high-pressure systems were well understood. The Alphas hadn't shown any interest in gas giants or 'gaslined ships' as we call them, so having somewhere like this to hide in makes sense. Best place to hide is somewhere no one will look, right?" With that, they nod to themself, climb to their feet, and head towards the suit locker.
	"The station should be pressurized with a normal atmosphere, but it has been running on standby for ages with just yearly maintenance. It is time to get this place up and running again." With two of you operating your ship's loading equipment, everything is transferred in short order. You notice that the last crate includes a substantial amount of field rations and survival gear. It looks like Gavriil is planning on staying here for a while.
	As they head off deeper into the station, you receive a notification that "Remnant Logistics" has made a deposit of <payment> to your account.
Technician and supplies to <planet>
You need to pick up a technician and their equipment from <stopovers> and take them to <planet>.
Plume's technician needs a free bunk and <tons> of cargo space for his equipment. Come back when you have enough space.
As you look around this eerily silent station, you get a message on your commlink: Plume requests that you pick up another technician and <tons> of equipment from <stopovers> and bring it back to <origin>.
Flight control gives you directions to a landing pad that already has a large pile of crates stacked next to it. As you land, workers swarm out to help load the equipment. Once everything is stowed, a young technician climbs aboard, stows their gear, and lets you know that everything is ready for departure. You shake your head, impressed at how quickly the Remnant make things happen when projects start to move.
On the flight over, the technician joins you on the control deck to chat. She's a biotech specialist, adept at managing life-support systems in alien atmospheres, and a recent graduate from a Remnant educational program that seems to be similar to a university. Apparently she studied astrobiology and is part of a project aimed at supporting mutually exclusive environments in close proximity. She spends nearly an hour excitedly telling you the ins and outs of the station.
	As you approach <planet>, it occurs to you that the Remnant might appreciate you taking steps to maintain the secrecy of the station. Altering the <ship>'s path slightly, you swing down into <planet> in an oblique path then meander around the planet under the cloud layer until arriving at the station. Your passenger nods approvingly as she notices the flight path. "Secrecy is always good with projects like this. We appreciate the extra effort, and if anyone were to follow you, a path like that through the clouds would leave few signs to spot."
	The <ship> settles into the landing bay, and the technician quickly disembarks. Apparently there must have been other shipments while you were gone, as there are now a handful of people visible and quite a bit more equipment stacked everywhere. The station itself feels more alive, the air fresher. As before, you promptly receive notification of another payment of <payment> to your account.
Remnant Data Delivery
Deliver a data crystal to the engineers on <planet>.
As you finish unloading, you spot Gavriil approaching. They gesture in greeting as they approach. "Thanks for the delivery. We've got standard logistics routes set up now for the rest." They pause and fish a data crystal out of a pouch. "Could you take this to Prefect Taely on <planet>? She is overseeing some retrofits and will need this data."
On Viminal you easily locate the maintenance yards and eventually find Taely buried in a Pelican. She spots you approaching and frees herself from the machinery. "Greetings, <first>. How is our station faring?" You reply that it is improving rapidly and hand her the data crystal. "Ah, good. The detailed chemical analysis and profiles." She slots it into her console and taps a few commands. "Okay, I just need to incorporate these profiles into the system and make a few more adjustments. Meet me in the spaceport cafeteria in a couple hours."
Meet with escorts
Travel with the <npc> to pick up a shipment of atmosphere from <stopovers>, and deliver it to <destination>.
In the cafeteria, you are met by Taely and several other captains. "Thank you for joining us," she signs. "The goal of this mission is to travel to Nasqueron together with equipment designed to harvest some atmosphere from the void sprites' worlds before bringing it back to Esquiline. The equipment on the Puffins will collect, compress, and store the gas, which you can offload to specially prepared tanks on the Pelican. Then proceed to <planet> and offload what you have collected to the station."
	She turns to face the group of captains and gestures with tones of respect. "May the Embers bring interest to your journey."
	She nods at you and continues. "The Penguin will be even better than the Puffin for this task, and you are welcome to use her, but we do not have any available to accompany you. Continuing to rely on Puffins is not ideal, but we will make do with what we have." She turns to face the group of captains and gestures with tones of respect. "May the Embers bring interest to your journey."
You cruise through the atmosphere at a relaxed pace, waiting while the equipment does its work. You see fewer void sprites than usual, and many have scars. Once the equipment indicates that it has reached capacity, you climb up to where the Pelican is waiting in the high atmosphere, hook up the connections to offload the gas, and then head back down into the depths of the planet. After several hours, the captain of the Pelican informs you that the tanks are full, and it is time to head to <planet>.
You arrive at the hidden station on <planet> where Gavriil is waiting to offload the atmospheric gases. Their team quickly hooks the Puffins up to ports on the bay walls, and hidden equipment starts pumping their contents into the system. After a few minutes, they disconnect the ships, and you and the Puffins head up to the Pelican to refill your reservoirs and ferry it down to the station.
	As the last load starts to empty into the station, another tech comes up to you. "Captain, we just received a message from Prefect Chilia. He would like you to meet him on Viminal as soon as possible." You nod and start to run checks on the <ship>, making ready to leave once the cargo is done unloading.
You have been informed that Prefect Chilia would like to meet with you on <destination>.
Investigate strange sensor readings
Long range sensors have picked up strange gravitational waves. Go investigate, then return to <destination>.
You land by the starport and are immediately accosted by a Remnant who informs you that Prefect Chilia is on his personal warship and escorts you to a nearby Starling. Inside you find Chilia and several other Remnant clustered around a holographic display and some display panels. "Ah, Captain. Join us, please." Chilia gestures for you to join them around the displays. As you approach, you note that the holographic display shows the Ember Waste, although there are a few details that do not match the star maps you're familiar with.
	Chilia notices you eyeing the deviations. "Perceptive, Captain. Our sensors have reported some unusual energy signatures coming from this location. Scouts in the area say they are picking up signs of a new system. There were no immediately apparent hyperlinks or wormholes that connect to it, but there are still unusual energy fluctuations in the area. Unusual even for the Ember Waste." He looks up at you. "We are hoping that you might be able to figure out a way in."
	"I could see if I can reach it with a jump drive."
	"I will see if I can find another way."
	"Thank you, Captain <first>. We have some ships that can follow, and there are other scouts already in the area that should be reporting soon. Given your experience with the wider galaxy, though, we would like you to lead the way."
As your ship's sensors re-establish their depiction of the system around you, an alien space station comes into view. It appears to be old and mostly inactive, but your sensors do pick up occasional bursts of energy - and, oddly, faint signs of life almost everywhere.
Surprisingly, the station is still operational, despite its apparent age. Ancient environmental systems maintain a breathable atmosphere, although it is thinner than you find comfortable. Likewise, the air is cool - but not dangerously so. Everywhere you look, you continually feel like you have stumbled upon a space station built by giants: doors are massive, controls are placed at head height, and displays seem to be angled for a being significantly taller than you. Most unusually, larger rooms often have what look to be benches and tables placed halfway up walls.
	The engineering of the station points to a dedicated construction program aimed at a single purpose. You trace some of the more obvious sets of cables and discover a large spherical chamber in the station's core filled with arcane machinery. It emits significant amounts of unknown energy - enough that your suit's medical systems emphatically warn you to turn back. While the devices appear to be central to this station's purpose, they will have to remain a mystery for now. Clearly, this is the sort of thing that the Remnant sent you out to find, and they will want to know about it as soon as possible.
As you arrive back at Viminal, you broadcast a warning to the port authorities that something is following you. You inform them that it is not hostile, but it is an unknown entity that originated in the new system.
Follow the Creature
The creature seems to be creating constellations and trying to get you to follow it.
Quite a number of Remnant have gathered around the spaceport watching the movements of the strange creature. It gestures wildly in various ways, then freezes in several different positions with the tips of certain tentacles glowing with energy. You note that several anti-air batteries around the area have their formidable-looking weapons trained on the creature in case it turns violent.
	After several hours of watching the creature, one captain pushes his way forward to where you, Chilia, and Plume are talking. "I think I have an idea about this thing, Prefect!" the man signs excitedly. "Look at the positions of the glowing tips when it freezes. That pattern there matches the star positions of the main Ember Waste systems when viewed from Peragenor, and that second matches Convector." He pulls out a datapad and pulls up a projection of the starmap. "It is hard to tell due to the imprecision, but it looks like the third freeze is probably Antevorta or Nenia."
	Plume chimes in, "If those freezes indicate star positions, then the flying and landing behavior in between them may be indicating that it wants you to travel there. Please give it a try. Make sure to take a 'gaslined' ship; if the third system is Nenia, it may want you to enter the gas giants."
The creature comes to a stop in front of you, spins around briefly, then spreads out its tentacles in another pattern. Following the Remnant's intuition, you match it to your star charts as probably being Convector. After holding the position for a minute, the creature realigns itself and starts to shimmer with the tell-tale signs of starting to make a jump, but it holds it, as if waiting for you.
It seems the analysis of the location was right. The creature quickly approaches you and repeats its previous dance, ending up with a slightly different frozen position. From this vantage, you suspect that it is probably Nenia. This time, as you watch it more closely, it looks like it is following in your wake somehow.
You have never seen such activity from the void sprites. Many quickly congregate around the strange creature that has been guiding you, and escort it to Nasqueron. It seems like that is where it wanted to be. In the distance, you can see the Archon methodically pulverizing a Palavret.
Report back to <planet>
The Remnant will want to know about what happened on Nasqueron.
You follow the creature down through the clouds of Nasqueron and emerge into what can only be described as an amphitheater in the clouds. Thousands of void sprites fill the area, and the creature you have been following floats near the center of it. Your external sensors pick up myriad pulses of energy and eerie whistling noises that seem to resonate in the clouds. As the <ship> moves forward, there is a sudden silence, and the flickers of energy synchronize.
	You feel a sudden pressure in your mind and a sense of presence as the world around you fades out somewhat.
	"Know you not, do I. Live creature inside not-quite creature, like ones who flew but not everywhere." You are momentarily disoriented as you look around and see hundreds of views of yourself peering out the cockpit window. "Your intention reverberates - Know and not know - Return with more echoes - Perhaps I shall hear."
	With that, the pressure vanishes, and you are left staring out the window at the rapidly dispersing flock of void sprites. You aren't entirely sure what the voice meant, but you are certain that the Remnant are going to want to hear about this.
Collect void sprites
Escort the Pelican fleet to <waypoints> and back to <planet>.
It is almost starting to feel commonplace to have Remnant pouncing on your ship and using your bridge as a meeting room. This time, it is Prefect Chilia and Plume who seem to appear out of nowhere requesting permission to board. The two gather around your console to watch the recording of your trip. They nod at your narration of what transpired and focus intently when you describe the strange presence in your mind. When you finish recounting your experience, they lean back in thought.
	"Captain <first>, the exact meaning is unclear, but it seems to be the voice of something not accustomed to speaking to us or creatures like us," signs Prefect Chilia. "While interesting, I think we should move forward with our plan and continue investigating this later." Plume reluctantly signs his agreement as Chilia continues. "Best case scenario, we can deprive the Korath of easy access to the void sprites. Worst case scenario, we can move enough that should the Korath hunt them to extinction in Nenia, they will continue to exist in our territory."
	Plume signals his cautious agreement. "This message is intriguing, but I agree it should not be our first priority. That being said, I will plan for additional investigations after we have completed this initial operation."
	The two look at you, and Chilia authoritatively signs, "We are evacuating a large group of void sprites from Nenia to Esquiline. The atmospheres are largely a match, and we have reconfigured the station to provide the nutrients that aren't otherwise present. We have a fleet of Pelicans that have basically been hollowed out so we can lure as many void sprites into it as we can."
	"How are we supposed to lure them inside?"
	"Are we sure this is a good idea?"
	"Okay, let's go do this."
	Plume looks a bit embarrassed. "When we first studied the void sprites centuries ago, we learned how to harvest them. As part of that, we discovered that they were particularly interested in certain types of radiation. Likewise, if they discovered a certain kind of element common in some asteroids, they would ignore almost everything while they chewed on it. So, we have emitters inside the cargo holds along with asteroids to keep them busy for a short while."
	"Okay, let's go."
	Chilia signs with a resolute tone. "Is it a good idea? Maybe, maybe not. Is it the best idea we have so far? Yes." He sighs. "I fully expect the Archon to interfere: they do have long memories. As best we can tell, they can pick out who is leading a fleet, so you should expect them to talk to you. That is, if they do not simply start shooting, anyway."
	Chilia continues. "You don't need to actually land anywhere in Nenia this time, Captain. Just make sure the Pelicans get there, load up, and return safely." The two stand up and get ready to leave. "May the Embers burn bright for you, Captain." With that, they disembark and quickly clear the blast area around the landing pad. Around you a large group of Pelicans are warming up, each one synchronizing to your IFF and confirming their status.
As you enter the system, you quickly search for the Archon, but it is nowhere to be seen. A Korath hunting party, however, is clearly waiting for you and moves to attack. As their ships converge on you, the Pelicans immediately set to work collecting void sprites. As the last one closes its hold, the confirmation codes flash across your tactical screen. "Good to go."
You watch vigilantly as the Pelicans with the void sprites dip low into Esquiline's atmosphere and open their bay doors. The void sprites emerge tentatively, then confidently launch themselves into the clouds. A few minutes later, you receive a message from Esquiline station informing you that the first void sprite just swooped through the bay, grabbed one of the asteroid supplements, and vanished into the clouds again.
Moments later a ping comes in on the commlink, and Prefect Chilia and Plume appear onscreen. "Thank you for your work, Captain. It is unclear what the results of this effort will be, but for now, we wait and see. Hopefully the void sprites settle in," concludes Plume.
	"In the meantime," continues Chilia. "We are allocating you a daily stipend from our resources to cover some of your ongoing crew, maintenance, and upgrading costs. A larger one-time allotment has already been credited to your account with the shipyard facilities to help cover costs incurred during this mission."
Deliver navigation data
Deliver navigational data on the new systems to <destination>.
As you finish your landing checks, your commlink notifies you of an incoming message from Dawn:
	"Greetings, Captain <first>! We will be compiling updated navigational charts for the new systems and would like a fresh copy of the data your nav system recorded. We are hoping to retrieve some additional data that is not routinely downloaded by the automated starport systems. Stop by <planet>, and the starport systems will copy the data during the systems check. It's a pretty small data set, so there's no need to use data crystals. Thank you!"
	The end of the message is the location of a starport on <planet>, presumably where you are supposed to go.
As the starport computer downloads the data, your computer displays a message tacked onto the log file: "Thank you for providing the additional data from your navigational logs. It will be useful to contrast against those of our scouts. A logistics adjustment of <payment> has been authorized for the <ship>."
Preparation for expedition
Install a Research Laboratory, retrieve equipment from <stopovers>, then bring it to <destination>.
You need 10 free cargo space as well as a research laboratory for this mission.
The crowd inside the spaceport cafeteria is an excited flurry of movement. You squeeze through a gap in the crowd to discover that they are gathered around a holoprojector displaying footage of the strange creature that recently followed you to Viminal and then on to Nenia. From the snippets of conversation that you catch, it appears that they are discussing theories about it. Almost as soon as you arrive, however, the gestures still and one of the Remnant gestures to you. "Greetings, Seeker. You are the one who found this creature. Since you traveled with it, could you share more recordings of it?"
	"Definitely."
	"Maybe later."
	A few commands on your commlink later, and recordings your ship automatically made from its sensors while in flight pop up on a second projector. Several others pull up their commlinks and start skimming over the attached sensor logs. Almost immediately, one waves to get everyone's attention.
	"Captain, was there anything unusual when you arrived there?"
	"Yes, sensors reported life signs."
	"I don't remember. Did you notice something?"
	One of the Remnant pulls up the relevant section and puts it up on the projector. "Right here, the logs show that there are ambient life-signs all over the system, but nothing of significance shows up on the physical scanners." He frowns at the projector. "All the equipment status signals in the records are nominal, and both the check digits and data hashes match."
	"So there are no problems with the data?"
	"Skip the technical jargon. What does it mean?"
	Another Remnant nods. "Exactly. There is no problem with the data or the equipment, so one way or another, this is what it recorded. As such, either there is something here which we have never seen before, or there is something causing problems with conventional sensors." He looks around at the gathered Remnant and pauses as if focusing on something you cannot see or hear, then turns to you. "We have reached a consensus.
	The Remnant pauses for a moment to adjust what they were about to say before continuing. "What it means is that there is no obvious explanation for why there would be life signs out there." They glance around at the rest of the gathered Remnant then back to you.
	"We would like you to take a team of five researchers and their equipment to Ssil Vida. Can you do that?"
	"You aren't a prefect. How can you make a decision like that?"
	Before he can respond, another Remnant answers. "The Prefects are not the sole source of decisions. One could say that they are the 'executive' authority that can make on-the-spot decisions, whereas the Remnant as a whole makes what one might term "legislative" decision making. The scope of our decisions as a group are limited based on the size of the group making the decision."
	"That makes sense."
	"Why do you need multiple methods of decision making?"
	"Because we are in the midst of war, and located in an actively hazardous part of the galaxy. We, as a people, need to make countless thousands of on-the-spot decisions every day. If we had to reach a consensus for every troop movement, expedition, or resource allocation we would be overwhelmed within days." She stops speaking, and another Remnant picks up the explanation.
	"By the same token, prefects can be killed, or overloaded. Having as much decision making as possible handled by the Remnant as a group reduces our vulnerability to assassination strikes, and helps protect our prefects from burning out under the responsibility. On the flip side, it also protects our society from becoming an autocracy where one powerful person or small group makes all the decisions."
	The Remnant still and look at you. "So, will you take this mission?"
	"Later."
	"Excellent. We will load our equipment racks on-board, and the equipment to go in them will be waiting for you on pad D43A on <stopovers>. Once it is loaded, return here to pick up the team of researchers who will be going with you. Remember, you will need 5 bunks free as well as an on-board Research Laboratory to complement our equipment."
	"Oh, that is unfortunate. Maybe some other time, then." The crowd makes various gestures of disappointment, and turn back to observing the projection and discussing their theories.
You land on pad D43A and sure enough, there is a team waiting to load a bunch of equipment into the racks. Within minutes they are done loading, and they cheerfully wave to you as they head off.
According to your log, you are where you need to be, but something is missing. The mission checklist blinks quietly at you on the side of your console, reminding you that you need to have a Research Laboratory installed, and that the requested equipment must be in-system. If you have more than one ship, it might not have arrived yet.
One of the Remnant is waiting for you. "Thanks for picking up the equipment. The team that you will be taking to Ssil Vida is waiting for you in the spaceport."
Expedition to Ssil Vida
Install a Research Laboratory, transport these Remnant researchers to <stopovers>, and then return to <destination>.
You need 10 free space for this mission.
In the cafeteria the scene hasn't changed much: there is still a large group of Remnant gathered around a cluster of projectors, with a constant stream of gestures discussing various points of the data. You understand enough to figure out that most of the conversation is deep into technical discussions of how the lifesign sensors might give the readings they do without having anything visible. The principal difference from before is the presence of five pressure-suited Remnant with a neat stack of equipment topped with helmets. One of them notices you and waves you over. "Captain <first>! My name is Dusk, and I am one of the researchers that you volunteered to transport to Ssil Vida."
	"Pleased to meet you, Dusk."
	In the cafeteria the scene hasn't changed much: There is still a large group of Remnant gathered around a cluster of projectors, with a constant stream of gestures discussing various points of the data. You understand enough to figure out that most of the conversation is deep into technical discussions of how the lifesign sensors might give the readings they do without having anything visible. The principal difference from before is the presence of five pressure-suited Remnant with a neat stack of equipment topped with helmets. You recognize one of them as Dusk as he waves you over. "Captain <first>! The Embers crossed our paths once again. I am one of the researchers that you have volunteered to transport to Ssil Vida."
	"Good to see you again, Dusk."
	"I was meaning to ask: are names like that common?"
	"You mean names of the various phases of daylight?" He pauses for a few seconds. "I would not say they are common, but nor are they rare, either. Our ancestors devoted their lives, one way or another, to studying the stars and the ever-changing light of the universe. It should not be surprising that their vocabulary should be so entwined in our culture."
	"Who were your ancestors?"
	"Interesting. Well, what is our mission?"
	Dusk looks thoughtful for a moment. "Our ancestors came from a different era for humanity. They were the heirs of a golden age of human scientific development and progress, when governments and institutions poured vast wealth into science. The developments of that time period resulted in the completion of the hyperspace relay network, new terraforming techniques, and advanced genetic engineering capabilities." His face clouds at that. "This, of course, culminated in the Alphas." He pauses, then shakes his head. "But you asked who our ancestors were, not about human history.
	"In that era there were a number of burgeoning astronomy and exploration programs across human space. Despite also benefiting from the substantial budget increases that science in general was receiving, they were being pushed to the margins of the academic community: unlike many of the more practical sciences like biology and chemistry which were coming up with new wonders, astronomy and astrophysics was purely academic. There was no budget in explaining the whys of the universe, not when other scientists were creating homo superior and unleashing instantaneous interstellar communication.
	"So they banded together. It was not, I gather from the records, an unusual thing for academics of a particular field to meet with others of their field. If one faculty could not fund an expedition, perhaps two different faculties working together could. Eventually they formed a loose organization, a sort of 'standing conference' on astronomy and astrophysics, through which they met to discuss, debate, and organize."
	"Your ancestors were originally a scientific conference?"
	"Thanks for the background. So, what is our mission?"
	Several of the Remnant nod, and another signs. "They gathered together to talk of their science, and each brought with them the captains and crew who enabled them. Some of those captains brought with them resources, too. Who else would appreciate learning of the void as much as those who ply their trades across it?
	"The association grew over time, although as best we can tell from our records it made an effort to remain both politically and economically neutral. As such, it remained comparatively small and close-knit. Many of our ancestors have told stories about calling themselves the 'Exploration Vector,' alluding to the fact that they were the one subset of humanity on a course to head out into the furthest reaches of space. They even held contests about who could go the furthest from inhabited space, or who could spend the longest time between resupply stops.
	"When the war against the Alphas started, it was these people who had the most knowledge and experience with the farthest reaches of space. While many outfitters might sell a captain a map showing the hyperjumps a few systems into the uninhabited territories, it was our ancestors who had spent years living in those systems while they did their research. Thus they were the ones who got the jobs running supplies, or flying reconnaissance. They saw first-hand the way the war was going. They made the rendezvous and picked up the equipment drops, and they grew increasingly worried."
	"They were worried about the course the war was taking?"
	"That would be worrisome. We should focus on the mission."
	Dusk starts gesturing again. "Yes, but also by what they saw. Strange ships that slipped over the horizon, odd energy signatures in the distance, novel equipment that simply showed up on Deep ships without explanation... It seemed like someone out there was taking advantage of the chaos to influence humanity. Someone beyond the reach of the normal hyperspace network. It spurred our ancestors to revisit old theories and kindle new ones. Knowing that there was someone, something beyond what we knew made us bold. It was not long before the first ship traveled through the wormhole."
	"Which ship was that?"
	"I think I can see where this is going. Time to get to work."
	Dusk smiles. "The Shadow Step, an independent science vessel who did double-duty as a gas miner. She made a quiet fortune harvesting rarer gases from obscure gas planets off the charted paths. Never enough to attract the attention of the big corporate entities, but enough to be comfortable. Her captain was always making modifications. Not a genius by any means, but what they lacked in brilliance, they made up for in dedication and willingness to experiment. According to our records, making modifications to the Shadow Step was their main hobby, and the small crew they flew with had similar interests." Dusk pauses to take a drink.
	"Thanks to the bravery of the Shadow Step and her crew, the hard work of the researchers that worked with them, and the contributions of a vast number of other ships and teams, the way out was discovered." Dusk signs this last with a note of finality, and many of the Remnant who were listening make the sign for "respect" and "together."
	Dusk smiles and signs apologetically. "My apologies for being overly detailed. I found the study of our ancestors to be an intriguing one, so I have spent much time searching out my families' history. That, in turn, has led to a detailed interest in the early years of our society." Dusk gestures towards the holographic projection of Ssil Vida. "But enough of history, the present calls to us."
	Dusk leans over the holo, peering at the details. "The mission is a very standard arc: we go to the station, set up our equipment to get some detailed readings, and return here once we are done. For these initial readings we should need about a day onsite, and we will leave some of our equipment to take ongoing recordings for retrieval later. After that... Well, we will see what the data says and decide from there."
Dusk and the team of scientists waste no time in getting to work: they have the preliminary sensors working almost from the moment you leave the spaceport, and by the time you dock with Ssil Vida they have all their equipment arranged to quickly offload and set up. With the space cleared, they expand the Research Laboratory and set to work analyzing the system. Before long they are clustered around displays and adjusting sensor readings, deep in discussion. Eventually, Dusk strides over to you. "Everything is set up and proceeding nominally, Captain. We will need a few hours to complete the measurements. You do not need to stand around watching, although you are welcome to if you like." Dusk heads back over to check on one of the devices.
	(Return to the <ship> and prepare for departure.)
	(Ask if I can help with their work.)
	(Explore Ssil Vida.)
	You pick up some instruments, recording equipment, and wayfinding labels, then check the map tracking the other Remnant researchers. Picking an unexplored direction, you set off.
	The first few corridors are marked with labels indicating the direction that other explorers traveled, and so you easily find your way into unexplored territory. As you explore the empty corridors, your early impressions of scale are reinforced by the massive doors and significant distances between them. Glancing inside, you find room after room containing large platforms. Each platform is lightly padded with several bars along each side, and what appears to be a storage locker set into it at the end. Based on your experience, you realize that these resemble storage platforms used to secure delicate cargo, but there is no indication of what that cargo might be.
	Further exploration reveals considerably more oversized rooms, including one with vast amounts of storage lockers and freezers. You note that the rooms you search appear to be fairly well organized, so you conclude that whatever happened to this station either did not cause a panic, or someone else cleaned up afterwards. After a few hours exploring you head back to the main area.
	You follow Dusk over to the equipment, and ask if there is anything you can do to help. He looks surprised, but pleased. After thinking about it for a moment, he asks you if you can help monitor some diagnostics and do some preventative maintenance on some of the equipment. Over the following few hours, Dusk keeps you involved in the work, occasionally explaining what the various pieces of equipment do. The rest of the team quickly follows suit, and before long you feel like part of the team. By the time Dusk starts wrapping up the observations you have started to pick up some of the scientific vocabulary, along with a few of the basics behind how the equipment works.
	You help pack up the equipment, then head back to the main room where Dusk and several others are gathered.
	You head back to the <ship> and run through all the preliminary checks to get ready for the trip back to <destination>. You quickly finish the checks, along with some preventative maintenance, and end up spending a few hours relaxing while you wait for Dusk and his team to finish their studies.
	Eventually you get a message from Dusk indicating that they are all packed up and ready to begin loading.
	You find Dusk in the main hall that opens directly off of the bay where the <ship> is docked. Remnant scurry around stacking equipment in preparation for loading, and a team appears to be setting up a number of instruments around the periphery of the room. Dusk spots you, and waves you over to where he appears to be checking the readings on a console.
	"What are you doing now?"
	"Ready to load up?"
	Dusk smiles at you and gestures at the others setting up instruments around the edge of the room. "We are leaving these instruments here running automated data collection routines. We cannot run the main instruments without access to larger power sources such as your ship, but these smaller instruments will be able to record baseline data for us as well as documenting any sudden changes in some of the spectral emanations. They will provide useful data for us in the future." He smiles, then continues. "As the saying goes, the best time to start collecting data is a hundred years ago. The second best time to start collecting data is now."
	He gestures to the rest of the team, who immediately start loading the <ship>. "Well, it is time to head back." Dusk heads over to the equipment pile, and starts carrying equipment onboard.
The trip back to <destination> goes quickly but quietly, as all the Remnant seem to be focused on writing reports of their observations. From what you can tell, each member of the team writes up their own observations and experiences, and then Dusk assembles all the reports into an expedition report that includes each researcher's verbatim report as well as his own.
	The <ship> settles into the current landing pattern for the main spaceport on <destination> as you flip through the exterior camera feeds. In the distance, you notice that one of the research hangars has some activity going on around it, but otherwise, the spaceport seems to be humming along as usual. Dusk stops by the cockpit as you settle the <ship> into its berth. "Thank you for helping us, <first>. It will take us some time to analyze this data, but we will likely be mounting another expedition to Ssil Vida in the near future." He pauses, then adds, "I do not think we ever mentioned it, but, as is appropriate for your assistance, a logistics adjustment of <payment> has been applied to your account to cover your costs and provide resources to prepare for future endeavors." Dusk gives you a polite nod before heading off to help the other researchers unload the equipment.
Deliver Data Backups for Taely
Deliver a data backup to <stopovers> for Taely.
You step out of the <ship> into the fresh air of <origin>. You recall seeing some unusual activity over at one of the research hangars. There must be something interesting going on to generate that much activity.
	(Not today.)
	(Go check out the activity.)
	You follow the stream of engineers and technicians to find Taely wedged into a cavity on what must be a ship. You cannot quite tell what it looks like, however, because it is still surrounded by scaffolding, tubes, and other systems. Whatever it is, it is quite small: without all the construction rigging, you suspect that it would probably be only slightly larger than a Puffin.
	As you peer around the supports a Remnant scurries up with a slimy cable in a bag and hands it to you. "Here, Taely will need this in a few seconds, could you hand it to her when she asks for it? I need to go find the next part. Thanks!" The Remnant vanishes into an adjacent storage room before you even have the chance to respond. Almost immediately, however, Taely twists around to look back at you. "Oh, <first>! I was expecting Cora to be there with the... Ah, they gave it to you. Excellent. If you could just hand it up to me, it would be much appreciated." You reach up to hand her the bag, and Taely inches farther into the craft until only her feet are visible. A few liquid sounds later, and Taely slides back out and drops to the ground.
	"So, you came to see what the excitement was about?"
	"I spotted it on final for landing and I was curious."
	"I saw it while inbound for landing and was worried."
	"Thanks for checking up on us then," she signs with a smile. "People being concerned for the welfare of those around them is the adhesive that makes society strong."
	She gestures to the ship next to her. "You have arrived in our space at an opportune time, <first>. While most of our developments over the years have been tweaking existing ships, tweaks can only go so far. Starting long before we established our first shipyard, we have been constantly innovating and trying out new ship designs. Every new development is put on the conceptual model to see if it can help us build a better ship." She grimaces slightly. "Well, that is a bit hyperbolic. Not every development applies to spacecraft, just the ones of most interest to me." She grins at that. "In any case, several of our development projects are nearing the point of production, and this prototype should be operational within a few days."
	She pats a piece of exposed hull, and you think you can almost feel some kind of vibration or hum in response. Taely takes on a distant expression, as if lost in thought. After a long enough pause to feel awkward, she blinks a few times and focuses on you again. "Sorry about that. A new ship waking up and all that." She smiles, thoughtfully. "Before I get absorbed in my work again, would you be able to make a delivery for me? It is a simple one, but important. I need someone to deliver a set of data files to <stopovers>. As my development project has reached its end, it is time to send a hard copy of the data to one of our archives for safe keeping. Could you deliver it for me?"
	"Yes, I can."
	"I am too busy for that."
	Taely looks disappointed, but shrugs. "No problem, I will get someone else to deliver it."
	Taely looks pleased. "Excellent. Just deliver this to the archive on <stopovers>." She hands you a very robust looking data crystal. "Looks a bit different from other data crystals, I am sure." She pauses. "These are archival crystals, and as such they have more robust data structures with many more layers of redundancy and error correction. Likewise, they have many additional layers of encryption and security to ensure that it does not fall into enemy hands. In other words, perfect for long-term storage." She smiles. "Once you have delivered this, please come back shortly to help with the initial launch of the new prototype."
Glancing around the spaceport, you quickly spot an information desk with several busy looking Remnant. As you approach, one of them signs a greetings to you and asks how they can be of service today. A few gestures later, and they pull out a device that they wave over the data crystal. The device makes a number of chirps before falling silent, at which the Remnant looks satisfied. "Everything looks in order, Captain <last>. Please come this way." He gestures towards an inconspicuous hallway tucked behind the information desk.
	The Remnant leads you through several sets of increasingly impressive doors before arriving at a room filled with tiny doors. He picks one, uses a key to open it, and pull out a small metal box that they unlock with a second key. "If you would place the data crystal here, we will record the surface metadata, and those who need it will be able to retrieve it when necessary." He waits until you have placed it in the box, then reverses the process to secure it in the vault wall again.
	The Remnant gestures, "If you are in a rush, you can drop it off in the surface vault for now, and I will move it to its proper storage location myself later. Or you can deliver it to the deep vault yourself."
	"The surface vault."
	"The deep vault."
	The Remnant leads you through several sets of increasingly impressive doors before finally taking you through an almost invisible door tucked in the back corner of a storage room. Inside, he pauses and gestures, "I would recommend you hold onto the rails, and either hook your feet onto the toeholds or activate the magnets in your boots, if you have them. The drop is quite sudden." Looking around, you note that there are what look like toeholds bolted to the floor around the edge of the room, and your guide has inserted his feet into one pair.
	As soon as you gesture that you are ready, the floor seems to drop out from below you. It seems as though you are in an elevator dropping down so fast that you are experiencing negative g-forces. After several minutes it begins to slow down, and instead of feeling lighter than usual, you feel heavier than usual as gravity catches up. Eventually, however, it eases off and the door opens once again.
	"Well, onwards we go."
	"How far down are we?"
	The Remnant smiles, and gestures, "I do not know the exact distance, but suffice to say that it is far enough that multiple direct strikes to the spaceport with nuclear ordnance would be insufficient to penetrate to this depth."
	Outside the elevator, the Remnant leads you down a short hallway with many doors, and eventually it opens onto a larger hall. At the opposite end of the hall is a massive door flanked with several large devices that look remarkably similar to Point Defense Turrets, but subtly different. Your guide takes a few steps into the room, and a short pedestal pops out of the floor near him. He pulls a license out of his pocket, places it in the slot, and presses firmly on it for a second, before removing it once again.
	He then walks briskly across the hall, gesturing for you to follow. Shields flare in and out of existence around the two of you, forming a series of openings that allow you to approach the vault door, which opens when you reach it. Inside is a disappointingly small room with a small tray on a pedestal.
	"If you would place the data crystal here, we will record the surface metadata, and those who need it will be able to retrieve it when necessary." He gestures to the tray, and once you place the data crystal on it, a shield springs into existence surrounding the tray, and the whole assembly sinks into the floor.
	"Well, that is done. Taely is waiting for me."
	"Those turrets looked different."
	The Remnant nods. "You are observant. Most of those turrets are, in fact, the originals that we discovered here. Each one is a veritable fortress in and of itself, which is why we built similar ones to use as point defense systems for our ships."
	"Originals?"
	"You did not build the vault?"
	"What do you mean by fortress?"
	"Yes, originals. As in, they were built by those who lived here before us, and survived countless eons protecting these hidden vaults. Even after so much time, they were still sufficiently functional to be formidable obstacles. We have since repaired them and learned much, including a lot that we have yet to be able to put into practice." He sighs, but makes a gesture of anticipation. "If we can master even half the science that made these, we will be able to achieve things that would seem like magic to those still on the ancestral worlds."
	"But you produce these turrets for use on ships..."
	"What about the Point Defense Turrets on your ships?"
	"There is a big difference between being able to make something that looks similar, and being able to recreate something perfectly. The elements that we have formed into the defense turrets are actually the simplest and least advanced pieces of these ancient protectors." He shakes his head. "Someday, though. We are making new breakthroughs all the time."
	The Remnant's gestures take on a tone of curiosity. "We are not sure what they are intended to hold, but their design includes a lot of passageways and chambers that resemble a hive or a miniature city. Some have speculated that the vault builders might have been minuscule beings, which would mean that these protective devices might well have housed thousands of individuals." He shakes his head. "It must have been quite the feat to survive and prosper in a world where wildlife could annihilate a village in a single footstep." After allowing you a moment to absorb the implications, he turns back to the door. "Time to go, Captain. The sentries grow twitchy when people dawdle here."
	"No, we did not build the vaults. They were built by ancient inhabitants of these worlds. We were lucky to find them, hidden away as they were. We have studied them, repaired them, and added additional layers of our own; but fundamentally these are still the structures left behind by those who came before." He nods appreciatively at the surrounding room. Taking a moment to look around, you note that the walls and floor join seamlessly, and are made of a dark metallic substance that seems to shimmer. After allowing you a moment to admire the design, he turns back to the door. "Time to go, Captain. We would not want the sentries to think you were dawdling here."
	The Remnant leads you back out of the vault the same way you entered, and back to the information desk. He thanks you for your assistance and waves farewell before being drawn into a conversation with another ship captain. You gesture a polite farewell and head back to the spaceport. Taely mentioned something about launching a new prototype, and that is likely to be interesting.
You have barely cleared the security perimeter when your commlink chimes twice with a notification of a logistics credit of <payment> being deposited to your account, closely following a message to land on pad 3E5 near the research hanger Taely has been working in.
First Flight
Escort the Merganser to <waypoints>, and destroy the Korath ship there.
You disembark from the <ship> just in time to watch a trio of small ships taxi out of the hangar where Taely has been working. They are strange little ships, only somewhat larger than the Terns and Petrels. What stands out the most, however, is the fact that the three ships seem to be walking of their own accord, moving forward on flexible landing legs.
	Taely follows them out, and when they reach the landing pad she whistles, causing the three ships to turn and cluster around her. You can see her smile even from where you're standing, and as you watch she reaches up to pat each of them on the nose. The trio sparkle with iridescent ripples as they move around, the skin flexing and twisting like some sort of organic creature.
	(Walk over to where she is standing.)
	(Wait until she notices me.)
	After several minutes of watching Taely commune with the trio of ships, she turns toward you and waves you over. "Enjoying the view?" she signs as you approach, but she continues without waiting for a response. "They are nice ships, and a major step forward in our ship development. Well worth watching." She nods to herself as she runs a hand along a fin, as if checking something.
	Taely waves to you as you approach. "Eager to meet the latest additions to our fleet?" She pats the nose of the nearest ship again. "They definitely are a beautiful addition to the Remnant patrols." She smiles to herself and runs a hand along one of the fins as if checking for something.
	"Captain <first>," she signs, "Please meet our first three Mergansers. I have been working on them for years now, and recent breakthroughs in our materials science have enabled significant progress in our ship designs." She pauses and gestures to one. "Would you like to touch them?"
	"Captain <first>," she signs, "Please meet our first three Mergansers. I have been working on them for years now. In fact, the Penguin that you helped me complete was an early prototype that was testing some of the techniques for these. With that and other recent breakthroughs in our materials science, significant progress in our ship designs has been made possible." She pauses and gestures to one. "Would you like to touch them?"
	Taely smiles. "Just hold out your hand, and let it sense you first. Once it bumps your hand, you can touch it safely." You follow her example, and a few moments later the nearest Merganser nudges your hand. You follow Taely's lead in running your hand along it, and you discover that - despite the slimy appearance - the ship's skin is dry and smooth. The surface is clearly metallic, but you can feel it stretch and twist under your hand as the ship shifts and moves. You can feel pulsing vibrations not entirely unlike the ones you are used to on the <ship>, but with subtle fluctuations.
	"So what do these ships do?"
	"Amazing what science can do these days."
	"They are beautiful."
	Taely nods in agreement. "I am glad you can appreciate some of the things we have achieved here. It makes me think that you will appreciate some of my other projects too.
	"Historically, we have relied on Starlings to fill multiple light combat roles here in the Ember Waste. Reconnaissance, sentry duty, escort, picket, patrol... They have filled so many roles." She pauses, glancing at a departing Starling. "Of course, we could just make more Starlings, but our pool of specialized crew is not infinite either. The solution I have is these Mergansers. They are sufficiently advanced that they only require a single person to operate and have significant range, enough to patrol large portions of the Ember Waste. This makes them ideal for escorting Gulls on resource gathering expeditions, patrolling for incursions, and other uses. Perhaps most importantly, though, is that they are fast enough to chase down anything we have encountered out here so far."
	She frowns a bit at that. "Unfortunately, the weapons program is not moving as quickly as I would like, so the Merganser does not have the tackling ability that I was originally envisioning for it. But at least it is an adept hunter we can use to pursue our enemies."
	"Interesting."
	"What 'tackling ability?'"
	"In space combat, 'tackling' refers to the tactic of pinning down an enemy to make them vulnerable to the rest of the fleet. It can also refer to hindering a target's ability to move, run, or escape. You are probably familiar with the idea of using missiles or weapons with an impact force to disrupt an opponent's hyperjump. This is a prime example of tackling." She pauses, thoughtfully. "Our inhibitors are tackling weapons, but they are not sufficiently effective as far as I am concerned."
	"Thanks for the explanation."
	"What is the problem with them?"
	"Decisive strike capability, mostly." Her gestures take on a conciliatory tone. "They are excellent weapons for swarms of ships, or when mounted on a ship that can carry many of them. But when one only has the opportunity to land a few hits, they are insufficient to pin down their target. But that is an aside. For now, we should celebrate our new ships, and see what they can do." She pets the nearest Merganser lovingly.
	"But enough of that." She shakes her head and assumes a business-like expression. "We would like you to lead a pair of shakedown runs. The first is a hunt for a crippled Korath ship that got stuck in <waypoints>. We will provide you with this Merganser to fly." She pats its nose fondly. "Along with a flight of four to accompany you. Of course you are free to fly your own ship if you prefer; the important part is that you all make it back intact. So, are you up for a test flight?"
You have destroyed the Korath ship that Taely sent you to hunt down. Return to <destination> to report the Mergansers' performance.
You disembark to the sight of Taely striding across the tarmac, but she veers away from you at the last minute to pat the nose of one of the Mergansers. She runs a finger gently along a weapon score for a moment, then turns to face you. "So, the Korath are still capable fighters, I see." She pauses, her eyes take on a distant look for a second before she continues. "But you have returned with the flock intact. Come, join us for a meal and tell me how they fared." She leads you into the hanger where a bunch of engineers and technicians are gathered in one corner with a rack full of food trays. They enthusiastically greet you and the Merganser pilots, and quickly pull you into discussions of how the Mergansers handled their first patrol.
	Before long the technicians and pilots are trading stories while the Mergansers overshadow the group. Sometimes they poke various engineers or technicians, and the technicians frequently share messages from their commlinks. Apparently they have them hooked up to the Mergansers, so the ships are sharing their own accounts of the patrol. After several hours of the festivities, Taely announces that everyone needs to get to sleep because tomorrow is a new day. As everyone bids their farewells, you note that they include the ships, with most people patting or stroking one or more of the ships on their way out.
	"Stop by the cafeteria tomorrow morning, <first>. There will be more you can help with, if you are interested." With that, she gestures farewell and heads off at a brisk pace.
Equipment to Ssil Vida
Dusk needs a load of <cargo> picked up from Esquiline, then taken to Ssil Vida.
When you enter the cafeteria you are greeted by Dusk and Taely signing at you from across the room to join them. Collecting a tray from the dispenser, you slide into an empty seat at their table, watching as Taely signs: "We were just exchanging news and discovered we can combine our next assignment."
	Dusk continues. "Based on the initial data we collected while we were at Ssil Vida, there is sufficient novel data to deserve a permanent research team there. Conveniently, the station is already habitable, but we will need several shipments of equipment to set up a self-contained section."
	"Okay, clear enough."
	"Why do you need to do that?"
	"For safety. The station might appear to be enduring and constant, but if we lacked independent facilities, the slightest failure could kill everyone. Given that we do not even understand how the station is running, depending on it moving forward would be foolish." Taely nods in agreement with Dusk, and adds, "We will, of course, be looking to do a full evaluation of the station eventually, but it is rather massive. It will be quite some time before we can finish that."
	Dusk gestures and their commlink sprays a holographic list into the air between you. "Basically, we would like you to load this set of equipment, then stop by Esquiline to pick up a technician by the name of Gavriil, who will be leading the establishment of the life support systems on Ssil Vida."
	"I know Gavriil."
	"Who is that?"
	"Gavriil is a technician with a knack for balancing life support systems, especially in situations with multiple environments that need to be kept in harmony. As I recall, you worked with them to set up Esquiline station."
	"Excellent. They are looking forward to working with you again. Now that the multi-environment facet of Esquiline is on track, they are ready to move on to a new challenge."
	Dusk scans down the list of equipment. "This will be enough to get things started. We will have regular supply runs start after you deliver these, so there should be just the initial load that we would like you to take. Can you do it?"
As you slip into the dock on Esquiline it quickly becomes apparent that the station is rapidly returning to full functionality, or perhaps even expanding beyond its original design: people are everywhere, and most of them are moving with purpose or diligently working on something. Several technicians cling to the ceiling overhead as they install new conduit. Despite the busy atmosphere, people frequently stop to glance out the windows, and a flutter of gestures break out whenever someone spots a void sprite. Seeing how busy it is, you understand the traffic controller's request that you refrain from taking up a berth for longer than necessary.
	You find Gavriil nearby, where they are going over a freshly installed hydroponics array with a pair of Remnant in tow. They quickly finish and gesture farewell to the other two before walking over to you. "Greetings, Captain <first>! Welcome back to Esquiline. It has changed a bit since you were here last." Their gestures have an overtone of pride. "Dusk told me that we have a new station to bring online again, so we should probably get moving."
The equipment is promptly unloaded as Gavriil scouts some of the nearby rooms. "I have picked a suitable area to start in. If you could help move these over to that room there" - they gesture toward one of the large rooms with the platforms in it - "it would be much appreciated."
	"I would rather not."
	"Why the rush?"
	"Suit yourself, I have work to do." They quickly set to moving the equipment to the desired room.
	"Thanks, many hands make light work." You quickly have all the equipment moved into the desired room.
	"Here, help me carry this and we can talk while we shift this." They hand you a lift and the two of you start moving the equipment. "Basically, we had a visitor out here. Not sure who they were, but they flew a Palavret with a wide mix of alien technology. Our scans said there was one Korath in charge, with a crew composed of both aliens and humans. And they came with enough firepower to make life miserable for everyone. We only had a few scouts in the area, so we stayed hidden and bargained. In the end, they gave us some 'inconsequential' data, and they got an hour to explore the station and take a few loose items. Our scans indicated that they took some stuff without much obvious value from these big halls." They gesture to the room around you with all the platforms.
	"That is odd."
	"What did the Remnant get?"
	"What leverage did the Remnant use to bargain?"
	Gavriil smiles. "Well, it seems that the captain of that ship found it distressing that we could pinpoint and detail them and their crew with sufficient data that we could use their own appearance as fake video in our transmissions, not to mention that we successfully identified them among the rest of the crew on board the ship. And it was doubly distressing for them that, despite their impressive scanner arrays, they were not able to even catch the slightest emission that might hint at where or who we were." Gavriil pauses as they palm open a door to pull the loaded lift through, then continues. "They blustered initially, but when we started listing off precise defects and wear present on their various computer systems they decided it was better to make a deal."
	"Clever!"
	"What did you get from them?"
	You finish unloading the equipment into the room before Gavriil continues. "Well, the Korath have been around for a comparatively long time. So we asked for their astronomical dataset. The data we received was raw, uncorrected, and continuous data covering multiple tens of thousands of years of stellar observations. The set even includes data that likely corresponds to the destruction of some of their worlds during their civil war." They pause, then continue. "Of course, we need to verify the data first. So far, though, it is checking out successfully against already trusted records. If it can be validated, the set will massively expand the data our researchers can use to model and study the universe."
	Gavriil tucks the lifter away into a storage alcove. "Well, thank you for your help, <first>. That definitely sped up the process."
	They look around at the stacks of equipment, and turn to you. "This will keep me busy for a few days, but if you would be willing to do some patrols, it would be much appreciated. I will have details for you once I have a few things unpacked."
Patrol systems near Postverta.
Gavriil has asked you to do a patrol through the nearby systems to make sure that a Palavret that passed by recently did not leave behind any surprises.
You have barely had a chance to finish your pre-flight checks on <ship> before Gavriil is tapping on your airlock. "Setting up a new environment is always an interesting challenge," Gavriil gestures. "But to the task at hand: Could you do a quick patrol through this collection of newly accessible systems? We have scouts en route with surveillance satellites to place in each of them, but I picked up the signature of a Palavret that was here recently, and I want to be sure that it left no surprises." They pause, then make a gesture you have come to recognize as meaning the accompanying message is intended as a summary. "So, visit each of the systems in this sector, and make sure that the Palavret did not leave anything behind." Their gestures switch to a tone of finality. "Can you help with this?"
You have destroyed the ships that the Palavret left behind.
You have patrolled all six systems.
As soon as you enter the system, three 'olofezes begin targeting your ship. These are probably the surprises that Gavriil was worried about.
You have returned to Ssil Vida, but you have not ensured all the nearby systems are clear.
Back on Ssil Vida, you check in with Gavriil and report the destruction of three 'olofezes that you located. "Three?" They sign quizzically. "That is an odd number. Palavrets only carry two at most. I will report this right away. But in the meantime, come take a look at what I have set up." They lead you off toward the spaceport.
Bring an Aeon Cell to Ssil Vida
Gavriil has asked you to go pick up an Aeon Cell from <stopovers> by <date>.
Gavriil strides into the room with confidence. "Look at this!" they gesture at the smooth sheeting covering the walls while the new equipment quietly hums away off to the side. A large panel with a diagram of the station stands out in the middle of it.
	"Setting up the life support systems as a self-contained environment within the station was simple enough that I did some preliminary power tracing on the station itself. It seems that the station is currently being powered by an immense fusion reactor that is clearly reaching its end of life." They pause, then continue. "Not to mention it is basically running on the dregs of the dregs of the remains of its spent fuel. I do not know how much longer it will last, but likely no more than a few weeks. As best I can tell, it is still trying to power everything, but the main load" - they point to the glowing red sphere on the hologram - "seems to have simply shutdown once the power levels dropped below a certain threshold." They frown at the display.
	"I do not know what will happen to the station when the main reactor fails completely, and we are not interested in letting this station collapse before we have had the chance to thoroughly investigate it. As such, we need to take action now to give ourselves room to work." They turn toward you. "I have contacted Viminal, and they have an Aeon Cell ready for transport. Please go pick it up and transport it back here." They smile faintly. "Oh, and it does not matter whether you transport it installed on your ship or in your cargo, but make sure it is not your primary power source: I have the tools to uninstall it from your ship and set it up to connect to the station, but I do not have the equipment to install it back into your ship." They pause to check a readout on the display. "Remember: it is vital that I have the Aeon Cell by <date>."
The Remnant have an Aeon Cell ready when you land. They carefully move it to your ship, and several touch it reverently before they depart. You remind yourself to make sure that it is suitably stowed before taking off again.
Gavriil has you unload the Aeon Cell into a corner of a nearby bay. "Thank you, <first>! The station is running critically low of power, and this should help stabilize it. We will eventually need a full team out here as well as some fuel to get the main reactor running properly, but first we need to figure out exactly what it uses."
	They pull out their commlink and check a few things. "Go to Caelian and check in with Torza. He should have finished putting the team through their paces by the time you get there. See you soon, Captain!"
Check in with Torza on <planet>
Torza should have a team ready on <planet>.
Recover equipment from Baianus.
Torza has asked you to recover 280 tons of equipment and 20 personnel from Baianus by <date>.
Over the commlink Torza is a flurry of motion as he issues orders in several directions. "Right now, we need another ship that can evacuate 280 tons and 20 people. Return here when you have suitable capabilities."
Your commlink springs to life as you enter final approach to Caelian, revealing Torza in a flurry of motion. He focuses momentarily on the camera. "Captain <first>, and flying a ship with a substantial lifting capacity, excellent! The Korath have discovered one of our forward operating bases, and we need help evacuating it now. It is located on Baianus in the Parca system. There are 20 people and 280 cubic meters of equipment to retrieve. The Korath have set up a blockade, so you will need something reasonably fast to get through it. You can fight them or not, as you wish, but the primary task is evacuating the outpost. Embers speed your flight, Captain."
Torza has asked you to recover equipment from Baianus by <date>.
The scene is one of organized chaos. One Remnant signs "We need a ship that can carry <tons> of cargo and 20 passengers."
Punching through the Korath blockade finds you racing across the aurora filled skies of Baianus. You quickly slide into the designated approach track and start to enter your IFF code as a barrage of anti-air fire erupts from the ground to lance over your shoulder. As you drop into evasive maneuvers you spot the wreckage of an 'olofez tumbling to the ice behind you, and a firelance beam sears the air where the <ship> had just been. Moments later you get the confirmation signal that they have accepted your ID and are tracking your position.
	As you approach the entrance to the hidden starport, directions appear on your comm panel guiding you to a spot where a large stack of equipment surrounds the landing pad. You ease inside and have barely touched down when a technician is dropping from the ceiling onto your hull with a refueling hose and repair equipment. Meanwhile, a swarm of Remnant are prepping and moving various equipment, many with lifts and loaders. You quickly open the cargo hold doors, and the Remnant rush to load and board the <ship>.
	The Remnant move fast, but you can hear the battle approaching. Even through the <ship>'s dampeners you can feel the heavy thud of anti-air artillery. The whine of generators being pushed to the limit fills the air as the shields crackle with incoming fire. Through the cacophony the Remnant move with purpose, gesturing instructions silently through the din. Finally the last load is packed onboard, and one of them comes up to the cockpit. "Thank you for your assistance, Captain <last>. As the explosive charges have been set, I recommend we leave promptly." They nod respectfully, then strap themselves into the nearest harness.
	The shield opens one final time to allow you to leave, and you practically leap into the teeth of a Korath attack. The anti-air artillery continues its rhythmic barrage against the incoming ships, but it is evident that both it and the shields around the base are failing under the assault. As you head for orbit, the last image you see is the artillery pieces sag and collapse as they melt into the ground. Your sensors record a sudden explosion from the cavern, to which the Remnant give a sad but satisfied nod. "Take us back to Caelian please, Captain."
The brutal sun of Caelian hits you like a hammer as you open the hatch to let the evacuees out. A few of the Remnant step into the sun as if relishing the heat, while others move quickly to the shade of a nearby structure to confer. Several, however, need to be carried out to waiting vehicles: it seems that they were hurt in one of the initial raids, and while adrenaline kept them going during the evacuation, their condition deteriorated during the flight back. The Remnant carry them with reverent haste, and then the vehicles they are loaded into vanish quickly into nearby structures.
	"The Embers saw you safely through." Gestures Torza with a note of appreciation, appearing from a nearby hatch. "The loss of that outpost is unfortunate, but at least most of the Remnant there survived. Thank you for your assistance." He glances at his commlink. "Your logistics adjustment has been added to your account, of course, but I suspect that you are interested in pushing forward the progress in studying Ssil Vida. Meet me in the spaceport when you are ready."
Transport team to <planet>
Torza has tasked you with transporting a team of technicians to <destination>.
You check in with Torza, who glances at his commlink. "You will need a ship with space for 15 people and 30 tons of cargo."
You walk into the cafeteria to find a group of Remnant looking tired but pleased with themselves. Torza is striding among them with a tray filled with bottles, handing them out. "Good work, everyone. Excellent pacing on that run." He turns towards you. "And right on schedule, the captain who will be transporting you over to Ssil Vida." He gestures for you to take a seat and offers you a bottle as well.
	(Gesture that I am not thirsty.)
	(Take a bottle and gesture appreciation.)
	You sip from the bottle, and discover that it tastes like some kind of restorative sports drink. You can pick out hints of salt and a few other flavors, but most of it is an indeterminate taste you cannot quite identify. Torza nods in approval as you drink. "Especially in heat like this, hydration is important." He continues weaving around the group handing out the remaining bottles.
	(Drink in silence.)
	(Ask the Remnant next to me what just happened.)
	The Remnant smiles tiredly. "We did a ten kilometer run in just under thirty seven minutes, wearing our emergency environmental suits and carrying basic survival and maintenance gear. Torza set a hard pace, but we kept up." She takes a sip from her drink. "It is hard work, but endurance is rather important for survival, especially in an unknown environment like <planet>." She takes another sip. "It was an interesting change of pace. Normally I carry full engineering kit, so this was a 'fast scramble' in comparison. He" - she gestures at Torza - "likes to change things up. No two runs are the same when he sets the pace."
	Torza quickly continues his rounds, and soon everyone is sipping on a drink. Several have pulled up displays of Ssil Vida, while others are chatting as they go over inventory lists. Most of the conversation that you catch sounds like a group of technicians prepping for a mission.
	After a few minutes Torza gestures for everyone to pay attention. "Now, to review the parameters: <planet> appears to be a giant mechanism for doing something we do not yet know. The core systems have exhausted the capacity of its large fusion reactor to supply it. The installation of the Aeon Cell has reduced the strain on the system, but cannot fully power the station. You need to focus on the power systems, and figure out how to fully stabilize the distribution. While you are doing that, <first> will be returning to Viminal for the next step in this operation. You will all be staying on <planet> for at least a few months, maybe longer as the situation warrants. Agreed?" Around the room there are a variety of nods and gestures of affirmation.
	Torza makes a gesture of respect. "Embers sharpen your sight, friends."
Gavriil is waiting at the dock when the <ship>'s hatches finish cycling. "Welcome," they gesture. "It is good to have fresh minds to share <planet> with." The Remnant onboard stream out of the ship in a rush, each carrying a heavy pack of equipment. They gesture respect, and head off in different directions. Evidently they have studied the maps prior to arrival, as they all seem to know where they are going. Several stay behind with Gavriil and help unload the rest of the equipment, some of which appears to include the core equipment of an outfitters.
	"We have made good progress since you were here last. We have managed to take over control of life support systems in several wings of rooms, and now those are run entirely from our own systems. Aside from relieving a tiny amount of load from the station's power core, it also means that the station could fail completely and we would still have safe living quarters to serve as our base of operations."
	They pause, and their gestures take on a tone of disgust. "Of course, we are working to avoid such a failure. But having multiple backup systems is the key to survival in hostile conditions."
	They look around at the few Remnant who have yet to vanish into the rest of the station. "Thank you for bringing more explorers." They hand you a data crystal. "I have already transmitted this data to Viminal, but I would appreciate it if you could take this to them to ensure there are no errors or data corruption in the transmission."
Deliver data crystal to <planet>
Gavriil has asked you to take a data crystal to <destination>.
Not knowing who to deliver the data crystal to, you take it to the information desk. The Remnant currently working there gestures that they have been expecting it and thanks you for delivering it. As you leave the information desk, your commlink chimes with a message from Prefect Chilia: he would like to speak with you, and is currently in the spaceport cafeteria.
Pick Up Refined Fuel
Chilia has asked you to pick up 58 tons of refined fuel from <planet> by <date>.
Chilia and Taely look excited about something, but when you inquire, they shake their heads and say you need to have earned their capital license before they can tell you more.
Chilia is just collecting his tray from the counter when you step into the cafeteria. Seeing you enter, he picks up a second and nods toward a pair of open seats at a table with Taely and Dusk. "We are glad you could make it, <first>." Taely looks happy, brimming with contained energy. "It is an exciting day, Captain, but Dusk should lead." She nods to Dusk, who sets down his fork to gesture.
	"While Gavriil has been making excellent progress setting up facilities on Ssil Vida, I have been working with a team of xenolinguists on deciphering the data we have collected so far. Based on Gavriil's recommendations, we have been focusing on the power distribution system."
	A hologram of Ssil Vida appears in the air over the table, then fades away to leave a large highlighted object with a network of lines reaching around the station. "As Gavriil has told you, the station's primary power source appears to be a massive fusion reactor. As best we can tell, it is quite a simple design, albeit one built for totally automated functioning and bigger than the largest reactors ever built by humanity. Unfortunately, it has consumed its entire fuel supply and is currently using up the last of the fuel it is capable of extracting by refining spent fuel. Our current estimates is that it is producing less than ten percent of its nominal power. This is sufficiently low that it has already ceased powering the majority of the station's systems." He gestures to Chilia.
	"Based on our analysis, the reactor appears to use a very specific isotope. Whether it is truly needed or others would suffice is unknown, but for now we are inclined to provide it with an exact match. While we will be able to produce it eventually, it will take time that we do not have." The diagram of Ssil Vida vanishes and is replaced by a map of the galaxy, which focuses in on <system>, near the juncture of the Rim and the South. "Our records indicate that the most easily accessible deposits are on <planet>." Chilia turns to you. "As you are from ancestral space and are most familiar with the people there, we would like you to travel there and bring back 58 cubic meters of processed fuel for the reactor. Can you do this?"
	A hologram of Ssil Vida appears in the air over the table, then fades away to leave a large highlighted object with a network of lines reaching around the station. "As Gavriil has told you, the station's primary power source appears to be a massive fusion reactor. Based on our initial scans, it appears to be a match to the Sheragi reactor you recently discovered, albeit on a vastly larger scale. Unfortunately, it has consumed its entire fuel supply and is currently using up the last of the fuel it is capable of extracting by refining spent fuel. Our current estimates is that it is producing less than ten percent of its nominal power. This is sufficiently low that it has already ceased powering the majority of the station's systems." He gestures to Chilia.
	"Based on our analysis, the reactor appears to use a very specific isotope, which appears to be one favored by the Sheragi. Whether it is truly needed or others would suffice is unknown, but for now we are inclined to provide it with an exact match. While we will be able to produce it eventually, it will take time that we do not have." The diagram of Ssil Vida vanishes and is replaced by a map of the galaxy, which focuses in on <system>, in the heart of the ancient Sheragi territory. "Our records indicate that the most easily accessible deposits are on <planet>." Chilia turns to you. "As you have worked extensively around that area, and are thus familiar with the people there, we would like you to travel there and bring back 58 cubic meters of processed fuel for the reactor. Can you do this?"
	All four of them look pleased, and exchange looks that seem to indicate they expected that response. Taely gestures with a thankful tone. "We appreciate your willingness to help us explore this mystery, <first>. Given that time is of the essence here, this seems like an opportune time to reveal a new ship that has just reached production." She stands up, and gestures for you to accompany her to the shipyard.
	There, crouched next to <ship>, is what you can only describe as a predator: it has long sleek lines with flared wings that resemble feathers, and a massive engine array that suggest incomparable mobility in a ship of its size. As you approach you can see several Remnant working around it. One gestures, and, as the ship extends a wing, the Remnant reaches out to make some minor adjustment then steps back. The ship then runs through a range of twisting motions, strongly resembling a raptor preening its feathers.
	Taely walks right up to its nose, and the ship crouches down so she can put her hand on it. "Captain <first>, I would like to introduce you to the Peregrine. It is the first new capital warship design we have built in over a century, and is the result of decades of work on my part as well as many others. Hopefully, it is the first of many new ships that are successful." She pauses before continuing. "Initially, they will be assigned directly to specific captains, but they will eventually be available for requisition normally."
	"Looks great. Let's fly!"
	"What sort of ship is it?"
	Taely gestures in reverence. "It is what we term a liveship." She scowls at you. "And before you start thinking about ships made of big piles of flesh and ooze, this is obviously not that." She runs her hand along the ship, obviously quite smooth and solid. "Liveships, as we are calling them, are spaceships that have a sufficient degree of self-awareness and self-control to be deemed alive. They are manufactured and have energy and fuel requirements just like any other ship. Likewise, they are largely made of materials similar to what you are familiar with. But they are conscious. They can move and flex in ways that would be impossible to precisely control with servos and traditional position reporting. They can feel where each tendril is as surely as most people can tell where their hand is, and each ripple of a wormhole vortex is as perceptible to them as the crest of a sand dune would be to you or I."
	She turns to you and pulls up a display, listing off various statistics. "From a technical standpoint, the Peregrine class starship is classified as a medium warship, built along the lines of the fast-attack cruisers from earlier eras. While it does not have the thickest armor or shields we could have installed, it makes up for it in unrivaled mobility and a neural system that has been hardened against some of the effects that could slow it down. It is also, so far, the largest production ship that has built-in cloaking."
As if on cue, the ship vanishes from sight. There is a brief rustle and a whoosh of air, and the ship reappears on the other side of you. Several of the Remnant working on it look amused, then relocate to continue their tasks. Taely gestures amusement as well and continues. "Given your recent work with Plume, it may also be relevant to you that the Peregrine is what we term a 'gaslined' starship; meaning it is built to not only fly in atmosphere but also handle both the pressure and conditions found in the depths of gas giants and other high-pressure worlds."
	Taely smiles, and continues. "You should be able to take off shortly, but Chilia does have some final comments on this mission."
	She gestures to him, and he steps to the front. "Given recent events in ancestral space, the authorities are understandably suspicious of large volumes of refined nuclear fuel being transported around. Likewise, it would be extremely problematic if someone managed to scan the Peregrine. As such, you will need to avoid being scanned."
	He taps on his commlink. "We have inserted an order for the material into the hyperspace communication system under the company name 'Solar Winds Logistics Ltd.' The miners on <planet> are to have the shipment ready to load at a mining site just outside of the spaceport, far enough away to avoid the standard arrival and departure scans."
	"Sounds good. Time to go."
	"What about people seeing the ship?"
	Chilia grins. "Fortunately for us, the diversity of human preference lends itself to our cause. While there may be only a handful of ships available for sale, spaceships are a surprisingly diverse and unregulated industry. As such, shipyards have carried on the tradition dating back to the earliest of vehicles: if someone has the wealth to pay for it, there is a shipwright willing to build it.
	"In our time observing Ancestral space, we have seen replicas in flight of every spaceship that has ever graced popular culture or a media production. While many are barely able to manage interplanetary travel, a surprising number are in use as fully functional starships plying the hyperlanes. Given the similarity between our ships and those of certain productions, we are not concerned with being seen - only with being scanned."
	A hatch opens on the Peregrine, and all the workers quickly finish their tasks and stow their equipment onboard. "Ready for departure when you are, Captain!" calls one from the hatch.
	You have declined an essential Remnant mission, and this ends the Remnant campaign. If that was not what you intended, you may wish to reload.
Drop off refined fuel
Deliver the refined fuel to <destination> by <date>.
Your reception is as friendly as <origin>'s reputation suggests: no one is there to meet you, and no one arrives to help load the cargo. All that greets you is a forlorn security console near the pile of crates and a posted statement directing ships to depart as soon as they finish loading. You use the code Chilia had sent to unlock the crates, load the <ship>, and get ready to head to <planet>.
	As you are completing your checks, your sensors alert you to the arrival of a small fleet that seems to be maintaining orbit over this area. It looks like you might have to take steps to avoid observers right away.
Your comms pick up a crackling broadcast: "Don't know who you are, but there's a bounty on unaffiliated people picking up large volumes of weapons grade materials that I intend to collect!"
When you contact <planet> to confirm where to unload your cargo you are greeted by Dusk, who directs you to a docking bay closer to the main reactor. As you open the hatch, though, it is Gavriil and a group of Remnant with lifters waiting. They welcome you cheerfully, but they definitely seem in a rush to get the processed fuel unloaded and shuttled into the depths of the station. Once the last unit is off your ship, Gavriil slows down enough to thank you for the prompt delivery, but apologizes as they rush off as there is not much time left. Their parting gesture suggests you talk to Dusk up in the control room.
Observe changes in Postverta
Something is going on outside, and Dusk would like you to take a look.
Up in the control station Dusk and a small team of Remnant are busily working at a bunch of consoles. Alarms blink and are quickly dealt with, only to have new ones appear elsewhere. There is so much motion that it seems like there are twice as many of them. From a glance at the readings, it appears you brought the shipment of fuel just in time: the Aeon Cell is overloaded trying to take over for the fusion reactor, and most of their efforts have been directed toward carefully orchestrating rolling brown outs across the systems to keep everything minimally functional.
	Gavriil suddenly appears on a viewscreen, gesturing that the fuel injection process has begun, and Dusk anxiously scans a number of readings. There is a moment of stillness, then readings suddenly start to climb. The Remnant quickly recalibrate their sensors to the larger volumes of power being handled, and the readings continue to push the top of the charts upwards. Section by section, whole banks of indicators flicker and fade out. A minute or two later, and the last display ceases to indicate any problems remaining in the power grid.
	Dusk turns towards you and the team with a satisfied gesture just beginning when there is a sudden shift as if everything had just went sideways. You almost feel like you can see a brief ripple, but it vanishes before you can focus on it. You are left with a feeling that something has changed. At the same time, the proximity sensors and systems monitoring the surrounding system light up. Someone looks up from a console. "The system is alive, Dusk! All those ghost life signs we were picking up just became much more solid!" Another gestures in clipped, fast tones. "And we have several large masses that have appeared as well. They look to be planetary in scale, but the readings seem to indicate something a bit more nebulous."
	Dusk looks around, and then gestures. "Captain <first>, please go investigate what is going on out there. Just take a good look around and then report back."
Just like the Remnant said, the system appears to be full of life. Where once there was just asteroids and a fairly empty system, there is now life signs everywhere. As you dodge among the asteroids, you note that most of them appear to have something growing on them: plants. Moss or fungus might be a better word, although you are fairly certain that nothing in the current classifications of life can adequately categorize what you can see outside. The sudden appearance of all this life is only compounded when your sensors light up to notify you that it is tracking several flocks of void sprites.
	As you move away from the station you continue to spot signs of life and activity everywhere: flitting among the rocks, soaring along the solar winds, and hunting amongst clouds. What is unclear, however, is where it came from. The only hint might be in the fact that your ship instruments report a sudden spike in the ambient energy in the surrounding area.
Back on the station Dusk, Gavriil, and many of the Remnant on the station meet you in the docking bay. Dusk and several of the others just came back from walking out on the hull of <origin>, and they report seeing void sprites passing close to the station. They quickly pull the data from your ship sensors and throw it up on a holographic display. Everyone gathers around, intently drinking in the data and footage. They stand, stare, and ponder with intense concentration as the data continues to stream in from the station.
	Without warning, something clicks in your mind. Suddenly there is a hum of hundreds of conversations crowding your thoughts and a momentary feeling of seeing the system through thousands of eyes. You feel a wave of curiosity, and a glimpse of <origin> as it might have been once - shiny and gleaming. The image ages like a fast-forward video of untold thousands of orbits as the station wears and the sky changes around it. Then the image freezes on what appears to be the present day. A feeling of appreciation replaces the sense of curiosity, followed by a blurry image of the <ship> leaving the station and heading in a dozen different directions simultaneously, as if watching it splinter into ghosts.
	The final image is of the creature the Remnant termed the "Ember Node," floating in space. The image splinters the same way as the image of your ship, and fragments into multiple ghosts of itself that vanish into a rift of energy. The sense of curiosity returns, and then there is a another click, and suddenly your mind is your own once again.
Postverta system sweep
Conduct a sweep of nearby systems and return to <origin>.
The Remnant have a shocked expression, and a couple of them are looking dazed. Most, however, seem to be handling the incursion fairly well. Dusk gestures eagerly to you. "Good to see you recovered quickly, <first>. We will take care of everyone here - we need you out there. Go do a sweep through each of the surrounding systems, and see if you can get a signal to any of the Remnant worlds. Our communicators have all lost connection, as have the isolated backups. So we need to re-establish communication promptly." He shakes his head. "I love meeting new beings, but they always manage to surprise."
You have successfully visited all the nearby systems. Time to report back to <origin>.
Back in the control room the Remnant appear to have regained their composure. Remnant move quickly from station to station, and every sensor and tool is in use. It is as if the Remnant are afraid everything is going to vanish any moment. Which, you realize, might actually happen. You find Gavriil carefully tending a console, and they look up as you approach. "The Embers guided you back, I see. How does the outside world fare?"
	They listen intently as you described your flight through the surrounding systems, and nods when you mention that your navigation system is reporting no connections to the rest of the Ember Waste. Even predictions as to jump drive performance indicate no valid jumps.
	"No connections whatsoever?" Gavriil looks thoughtful. "That actually makes sense." They gesture at a display of the area. "As best our sensors can pick up, the universe beyond this pocket of the Ember Waste just does not exist."
	They quickly continue. "Of course, we can see it out there. But it is like looking through a very thin film." Gavriil looks thoughtful. "The current leading theory is that we are in some kind of dimensional bubble. A pocket dimension of sorts. But we have not yet reached a consensus."
	"What happened to us? Did we all see the same thing?"
	"Where did those feelings and images come from?"
	Gavriil frowns in thought. "Based on our initial survey, each person had a slightly different experience. We think that everyone had basically the same event, but as it was a series of impressions, images, and feelings, each person picked up on different aspects of it."
	Their gestures take on a confident tone. "Which makes sense, since our life experiences shape our perceptions. Still, as to what it was..." They pause, gathering their thoughts. "Our best guess is that this was first contact with some sort of entity." They grin at that. "I know, stating the obvious. But anyway, Dusk thinks that it might be some sort of solitary entity, as it did not use words or meanings, despite having access to our minds. As such, it uses internals to convey meaning instead of words." They glance at a map of the system. "There is, however, no indication as to where it came from."
	"How do we get back?"
	"What happened to the long range communication?"
	"Well, that is a good question. We have, and still are, running diagnostics on them, and so far they are passing all their checks. The system safeties, isolation mechanisms, security monitoring, tamper-proofing, self-destruct systems, backup hardening..." They shake their head, stymied.
	"Everything looks in perfect working order. The only problem is that the quantum pairs at the heart just do not seem to have a pair anymore. In terms of quantum mechanics, it seems that the rest of the universe quite simply does not exist."
	"That seems problematic. How do we get back?"
	"Did we destroy the universe by powering up this station?"
	Gavriil smiles with amusement. "It is certainly a possibility. However, the fact that it was, as best we can tell, powered up previously without destroying the universe suggests that it transported or isolated us rather than destroying everything else."
	They frown at the communication panel. "Although everything I know about quantum mechanics refuses to countenance something being able to leave the universe so absolutely like this." They smile again. "But that is the way of science! Finding new things in the universe that tells us that what we know is not so absolute."
	"I think we should focus on getting back."
	"Should we be worried?"
	Gavriil gestures neutrally. "Well, I am worried, of course. I would be devastated to find out I had destroyed humanity, and everything else in existence." They look somber, but then perk up again. "But if everything has been annihilated, there is nothing I can do about it. So I shall focus on learning what I can, doing what must be done, and enjoy the fact that the universe has inexplicably revealed once again that the sum of all our knowledge is merely the introductory metaphor to help us grasp how things work." Their gestures abruptly change tone. "Speaking of which, we need to report what we have learned to the rest, which means leaving this place."
	Gavriil gestures at the control panel in front of them. "I do not know for sure, but based on events, I suspect that if we manually induce a power failure we should be able to reverse the process that transported us to this realm." They smile eagerly. "I have everything all set up, and we have people waiting across the station." They look confident. "We think that we can safely spin down the reactor and cut power across a number of these arrays in a controlled fashion. This should replicate the original power failure, except with fewer risks and less damage to the system."
	They lead you over to a panel in the main loading dock. "I know, it says 'Job Board' on it. I re-used the coding for our task list to improvise this mass-notification system." They smile in amusement. "When you are ready to go, just select the 'De-activate Array' option from the panel. That will notify everyone and begin the shutdown."
	They hand you a data crystal, and then a large case. "Here is an encrypted data crystal of all our data so far. The case has several sets, with the data stored in a variety of different mechanisms and encryptions. We do not know what happens when the station is activated or deactivated, so multiple formats for storing the data will give a better chance that at least some of it will remain intact to be delivered."
	They step back. "Well, I will return to the controls. Just give the signal when you are ready to leave. Embers light your path, Captain <first>."
De-activate Ssil Vida Power
Accept this to signal everyone to cut the power.
With a shudder that is felt in every fiber of your being, you glimpse the ripple that makes reality look like the surface of a pond after a single rain drop. Almost before it begins, everything is still again. You look at your sensors, and it looks like Postverta has once again returned to its prior, barren, form.
Activate Ssil Vida Power
Accept this to signal everyone to restore the power.
With a shudder that is felt in every fiber of your being, you glimpse the ripple that makes reality look like the surface of a pond after a single rain drop. Almost before it begins, everything is still again. You look at your sensors, and it looks like Postverta is once again overflowing with life.
Take data to <planet>
The rest of the Remnant need to know what is happening. Take this data to them on <destination>.
A crowd of Remnant cluster around your ship as you land, but it is just one who gestures quickly, asking if the rest of the team who went with you are safe. You nod, and a ripple of relief goes through the crowd. "So, what happened?" asks another.
	(Explain everything that happened.)
	"I think I should tell this to the prefects first."
	The Remnant around you look amused. "Do not be concerned, <first>. Everything you say will reach them. The sooner you tell us, the sooner we can start preparing for whatever is necessary."
	"I thought the prefects were your leaders?"
	"They bear our executive responsibilities, it is true. Times of critical threats require the capacity for decisions to be made in the instant. But do not confuse the authority to make high-value decisions with being in charge of everything. The less immediate a decision is, the more likely it is to be the product of significant discussion among us all. Likewise, decisions about what constitute the policy and values of our society are things decided upon by the unified whole, not any one individual." She pauses, and smiles. "Admittedly, given your involvement in smaller projects and unfolding events, our society probably does have a certain autocratic appearance."
	"Okay, I will explain everything."
	"How can you reach consensus so easily?"
	She looks around with an uncertain expression, then nods. "As I am sure has occurred to you, communication by gestures has some disadvantages. We still prefer it for some tasks, but it can be awkward to watch or gesture in the midst of some situations. While we have some vocabulary we can use without needing hands or arms, it is very limited.
	"Fortunately, one of the original abilities of our companions is related to the nervous system. I believe Dawn may have told you a little about it, but was scarce on details." She smiles wryly, then another Remnant takes up the conversation.
	"To put it simply, we can form ad-hoc neural networks between us, of varying levels of intensity. Without the necessity of speech or gestures, we can have entire conversations in the blink of an eye."
	He gestures confidently. "A team of Remnant, for instance, could all review incoming data from an experiment, form their own analyses, and then hold what amounts to a conference where each fully presents their thoughts and ideas with supporting data and reasoning within the span of a few minutes."
	His gestures take on a cautionary tone. "Of course, accelerating to that level takes effort, and it is a long process to learn to manage our thoughts in such a way as to have productive conversations. But the results speak for themselves." He gestures broadly at the group.
	"One such benefit is that in a policy debate, each person can be heard in depth, including checking the veracity of data and sources. This has significant benefits for minimizing the numbers of decisions made with incomplete or erroneous data, and maximizes the amount of information available to any one of us."
	A third Remnant steps up. "As to the matter at hand, this means that the sooner any of us hear your report, the sooner everyone will have heard it." They look at you expectantly.
	The Remnant smiles mysteriously. "A society has to have some secrets, does it not? Let us just say that our communication networks are very effective. At this point, just know that the sooner you give the report, the sooner that everyone will be able to work on this information." They pause, then continue. "And that does, of course, include the prefects."
	"Okay, I will explain what happened."
	"Alright, you convinced me."
	The Remnant watch you attentively as you explain everything that went on at Postverta and the surrounding area. Once you hand over the data crystals, one Remnant slots one of them into a console on the spot while another pair take the case with the rest and hustle off toward the information desk.
	As you reach the end of your report, one of the Remnant nods in approval. "We are starting to disseminate your report along with the data Dusk and Gavriil collected. Both copies of the data match, and have passed the initial verifications, so it appears they were not affected by your departing... shift."
	They look around at the surrounding Remnant, and you have the sudden feeling that there is an entire level of discussion happening around you. You spot Aeolus moving through the crowd to the front, and he gestures with tones of appreciation. "Thank you for all your work on this, <first>. We have a strong appreciation for the risks you have taken alongside us, and I hope we will continue to explore together. That being said, I suspect it will take much collective effort to determine our next course of action." He looks around, and then winks at you. "In the meantime, I have unlocked access to a few more bits of rarer Korath salvage, including access to captured 'olofezes. It is not much, but it may give you a little more ease of outfitting the <ship>."
Once they left human space, it became apparent to the Remnant that they would need to build their own shipyards in order to defend themselves if they were discovered by the Alphas or any other unfriendly faction. Using new composite materials that they discovered, they built ships very different from anything seen in human space.
The Tycho Crater Cooperative's Dromedary was one of the foremost colonization ships during the early era before piracy became rampant and triggered the necessity for city-ships to be more combat-oriented. These ships incorporate extensive hydroponics, large construction equipment installations, and hundreds of densely packed "dream cells" built to transport people in bulk.
	Since the Remnant do not have schematics for the Dromedary, just the highly-modified example of the Shattered Light, this ship is actually a commemorative replica of that specific ship. As such, it combines the original's odd mix of eclectic modifications with new Remnant systems.
	Unfortunately, since they lack the manufacturing facilities that would normally support a large construction project, it will cost massively more than it would have originally back on Luna.
	This is a wreck. A ship that once might have held hundreds of people has no functional environmental system, the once verdant hydroponics domes are shattered, and much of the ship appears to be destroyed. Burns, strange scrapes, and twists to structural elements abound. Only a smattering of droids persistently continuing their work manage to maintain any degree of functionality.
While the Starling was the first successful ship to use technology derived from alien ruins, the Gull is the most recent. The current increase in Korath activities has caused foraging for resources to become a risky endeavor, forcing the Remnant to develop a specialized freighter for hauling cargo from remote sites without revealing their presence to hostile aliens.
	The Gull has quickly proven its worth, allowing the Starling fleets to return to riskier activities while the Gull takes over the hazardous convoy routes. It is now the primary element of the Remnant's extra-territorial resource operations.
	The cloaking technology is built into the Gull's hull; it cannot be removed or transferred to another ship.
The Heron is the Remnant's ultimate last resort: Flight. These mobile starports are built to serve as the core elements of evacuation fleets when the Remnant are ultimately pushed to the brink of destruction in their home systems. These massive ships are capable of lifting enormous amounts of resources and operate both in space and on land, and are continuously updated to make full use of the latest technological innovations.
	The few Herons in existence are carefully guarded secrets that embody the Remnant's core tactics of speed, stealth, and survival. Given the tiny number that exist, they are never available for discretionary use by Remnant captains and are always operated under the authority and direction of a prefect.
The Ibis is a multipurpose carrier that serves as a mobile mining platform, an escort ship for Pelican fleets, and a combat platform using Terns for screening. It is capable of fielding a single wing of support craft, consisting of two Petrels and four Terns.
	The Ibis was designed shortly after the Albatross as a means of extending the range of resource collection efforts after the Remnant realized that an Alpha invasion might not be as imminent as originally believed.
The Merganser is the first production ship the Remnant deem to be truly alive, and are considered to be equivalent to dolphins in reasoning tests. These interceptors, deemed for short range operations by Remnant standards, are designed to patrol the upper atmosphere of gas giants and use their decisive speed advantage to conduct hit-and-run attacks on threats in nearby systems.
	The cloaking technology is built into the Merganser's hull; it cannot be removed or transferred to another ship.
The Pelican is closely based on the original semi-organic materials the Remnant found in the Ember Waste. While they are not technically alive, their internal mechanisms and method of construction bear such a close resemblance to living organisms that they are often considered as such. One key feature of this living resemblance is the innate sensory capabilities they possess, akin to sensor suites less advanced ships require for detailed scanning. These ships serve as the backbone of Remnant bulk salvage efforts, as well as their fast-logistics distribution network.
Inspired by close contact with void sprites and the reinvigoration of xenobiology, the Penguin is a prototype designed to serve the dual roles of testing new starship technology while exploring hostile planets throughout the Ember Waste. One of this ship's distinguishing features is that it is truly alive and has a mind that approaches self-awareness.
	The cloaking technology is built into the Penguin's hull; it cannot be removed or transferred to another ship.
The Peregrine is the first capital warship designed by Taely using fresh insights garnered from recent experimentation as well as renewed studies of the void sprites. Encompassing over a century of development since the last generation of warships was built, it is the forerunner of a new breed of Remnant ships.
	The Peregrine was designed along the lines of old-earth's fast-attack cruisers. Drawing on inspiration from its namesake, famed for being the fastest self-propelled lifeform on Earth, it is designed to strike hard and fast. It closes quickly with enemies to unleash devastating barrages in the opening seconds of combat.
	The cloaking technology is built into the Peregrine's hull; it cannot be removed or transferred to another ship.
The Petrel is a multi-role mining/wing leader fightercraft designed to provide support for flights of lighter Terns in high-risk environments. The ship's design originated as an urban mobile gun platform that flitted around structures and natural terrain, but proved easy to adapt into a spacecraft.
	The Remnant are loath to sacrifice pilots and crew from the comparatively small pool they are drawn from. As such, their fighters are equipped with medium-range weaponry designed to strike enemies from afar.
Centuries ago, the Remnant built these ships in order to explore the upper atmosphere of nearby gas giants. The Archons took issue with the Remnant's research methods, and the studies were unable to be completed. The remaining Puffins have been gathering dust in storage for centuries while the Remnant wait to see if the anger of the Archons will subside.
The Remnant have long favored turns of action that avoid putting crew directly at risk; though their Terns are a rather effective result of this ideology, the Remnant still had to face the fact that, eventually, one of their manned ships was going to end up too crippled to escape to safety. To that end, the Smew was developed; though quite lightly armed, Smews are capable of carrying a considerable quantity of cargo and passengers for a ship of their size, and are durable enough to absorb some fire from enemies while doing so.
	Though originally designed as lifeboats, the surprisingly mobile freighter-fighter hybrid has seen a remarkable amount of usage in mining fleets, as a way to supplement the otherwise poor cargo capacity of the Ibis. Because their purpose can vary from fleet to fleet, Smews are traditionally sold with a fair amount of free space: enough for a small weapon, upgraded engines, or additional support systems.
One of the strangest and most useful things that the Remnant have discovered in the abandoned worlds of the Ember Waste is alien cloaking technology. They have designed their scout ships to cloak when needed in order to explore alien territory without being seen... or to escape in a hurry after stealing something particularly valuable from those aliens.
	The cloaking technology is built into the Starling's hull; it cannot be removed or transferred to another ship.
The Tern is a small, hardy drone developed to plunge into the atmosphere of nearby gas giants for collecting valuable resources. These thick-shelled craft are also surprisingly effective when pressed into service as screening ships when enemies intrude into Remnant space.
	Unlike most spacefaring nations, the Remnant do not have enough people to pilot fighter wings in waves likely to sustain significant casualties. As such, they frequently use these hardy drones to fulfill similar screening roles in their home systems, allowing manned craft to focus on more specialized tasks.
Crippled <npc model> Bounty
A crippled Korath ship is lurking in Remnant territory. Hunt it down, and then return to <planet> to receive your payment of <payment>.
You have destroyed the Korath ship. You can now return to <planet> to collect your payment.
A Remnant military leader thanks you for hunting down the <npc>, and gives you the agreed-upon payment of <payment>.
Troublesome <npc model> Bounty
A Korath ship is proving troublesome in Remnant territory. Hunt it down, and then return to <planet> to receive your payment of <payment>.
A Remnant military leader thanks you for hunting down the Korath ship <npc>, and gives you the agreed-upon payment of <payment>.
Broken Jump Drive Delivery
The researchers on <planet> need another broken jump drive to continue their project.
The research team quickly offloads the broken jump drive and pays you <payment> before hurrying back to their lab.
Research Expedition to <waypoints>
Travel to <waypoints> with a Research Laboratory to collect data, then return to <destination>.
Your scientist unpacks the laboratory and takes the requested observations. A short while later, they have the data compiled on a set of data crystals and inform you that everything is ready for departure.
When you land, a researcher quickly retrieves the data crystals with the information about the surveyed system and hands you the logistics allotment of <payment>.
Damaged Rano'erek Bounty
A damaged Korath ship is lurking in Remnant territory. Hunt it down, and then return to <planet> to receive your payment of <payment>.
Marauding Rano'erek Bounty
A Korath ship is marauding through Remnant territory. Hunt it down, and then return to <planet> to receive your payment of <payment>.
Destroy Ground Assault Bounty
A Korath ship is hunting for our outposts in the Ember Wastes. Track it down, eliminate it and any fighters it is carrying, and then return to <planet> to receive your payment of <payment>.
You have destroyed the Korath ship and its fighters. You can now return to <planet> to collect your payment.
You've landed on <planet>, but the Korath ship and its fighters have not all been eliminated. Hunt them down and destroy them before returning.
A Remnant military leader thanks you for hunting down the Korath ship <npc> and its fighters, and gives you the agreed-upon payment of <payment>.
Civil delivery to <planet>
Engineers on <planet> need <cargo> delivered. Logistics adjustment is <payment>.
A project engineer inspects the <cargo> and signs off on your payment of <payment>.
Industrial delivery to <planet>
Project teams on <planet> need <cargo> delivered. Logistics adjustment is <payment>.
A project technician inspects the <cargo> and approves your payment of <payment>.
Component delivery to <planet>
Outfitter repair crews on <planet> need <cargo> parts delivered. Logistics adjustment is <payment>.
A repair technician inspects the <cargo> parts and authorizes your payment of <payment>.
Salvage delivery to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> components from recent salvage operations to the outfitters on <planet> for research, refurbishment, or recycling. Logistics adjustment is <payment>.
Two armed repair technicians inspects the <cargo> and authorize your payment of <payment>.
Search and Rescue: Scout
The <npc> has gone missing during a scouting mission in the Ember Wastes. Find them and help them return to <destination>.
Your communicator notifies you of a resource allocation of <payment>.
You have returned, yet the <npc> is still missing.
As you enter the system, your sensors pick up a lot of debris. Further analysis confirms your worst fears. The <npc> has been destroyed. You frantically spend the next few hours searching for survivors, your hope sinking with every passing minute.
You land, and with a heavy heart, report that the <npc> was lost with all hands. The Remnant are saddened at the news, but thank you regardless and hand off your resource allocation of <payment>.
Search and Rescue: Retrieval
The <npc> has gone missing during a tech retrieval mission in the Ember Wastes. Find them and help them return to <destination>.
Your communicator notifies you of a resource allocation of <payment>, along with a brief note of thanks.
Search and Rescue: Supply Ship
The <npc> has gone missing during a supply run in the Ember Wastes. Find them and help them return to <destination>.
Your communicator notifies you of a resource allocation of <payment>, and also a thank you from the captain of the <npc>.
Distress Signal: Graveyard
A distress signal has been received from the <npc> in the Graveyard. Follow the telemetry data to find them, and help return them safely to <destination>.
Upon landing, the captain of the <npc> meets you at your ship to thank you personally for rescuing them from the Graveyard, leaving you with a heartfelt sentence: "May the Embers burn bright for you."
	Soon after, your communicator notifies you of a resource allocation of <payment>.
You have returned, yet the <npc> has not.
Search and Rescue: Terminus
While scouting around Terminus, the <npc> has stopped reporting in. Find out what happened and return to <destination>.
Worried that they would never see the Embers again, the captain of the <npc> personally thanks you for bringing them home, even before your communicator notifies you of a resource allocation of <payment>.
You have returned, but there is still no word from the missing ship.
Disable Damaged Kas'lor Ik 582
A damaged Kas'lor Ik 582 is stuck in a newly accessible system, near Postverta. It has a large civilian population so we ask you to only disable it to avoid an atrocity. Once you return to <planet> you will receive a logistics adjustment of <payment>.
You have disabled the Kas'lor Ik 582. Time to report back to <planet>.
You've landed on <planet>, but the stuck Kas'lor Ik 582 has not been disabled yet. Hunt it down and disable it before returning.
The Remnant are puzzled at your aborting of this mission, but they tell you they will send someone else to do this work. They advise you they will prioritize other teams for these missions in the future.
You where unable to disable the Kas'lor Ik 582 without destroying it... The Remnant will not be pleased...
A Remnant military prefect thanks you for disabling down the Kas'lor Ik 582 <npc>, and gives you the agreed-upon logistics adjustment of <payment>.
Tall
Dusky
Late
Frozen
Sunlit
Calm
Weary
Ancient
Serene
Eternal
Starlit
Wide
Wonder
Breeze
Road
Season
Ocean
Ember
Spire
City
Thread
Lattice
Beam
Glen
Stronghold
Holdfast
Redoubt
Dancing
Leaping
Plunging
Falling
Afire
Aglow
Nearby
Yonder
Spoken
Awakened
Remade
Begun
Ended
Found
Resting
Changed
Alive
Restored
Preserved
Renewed
Reborn
Ascended
Ascending
Soaring
Everlasting
Persevering
Discovering
Discovered
(They sent you a hail consisting of a sign language you don't understand.)
(You hear a short song about how scanning them will be considered a hostile action.)
"If you value the continued survival of humanity, do not scan our ships," a strangely melodic voice says.
"If you value your continued survival, do not scan our ships." The voice speaks with a tone reminiscent of singing.
"We value our privacy, and will respond to scanning with deadly force." The voice is strangely melodic.
"Do not scan our ships," someone sings to you.
I am
watching
observing
analyzing
overseeing
your actions
your behavior
Eat space dust
Time to go
Sing your last prayers
Leave this space
hostile ship
My friend
My comrade
My gut
was right
was correct
knew it
 You're 
here with malicious intent
an Alpha
(They sent you hail consisting of a sign language you don't understand, and it doesn't seem friendly.)
(They sign so quickly that your hail receiver can't process it all.)
(It seems you are not welcome here.)
Hello there
comrade
brethren
I almost died
Several hostiles attacked my ship
My mission was difficult
We had an emergency
There was a swarm of Korath raiders here
We faced a life-threatening situation
last week
last month
last year
Luckily
Fortunately
Miraculously
my captain
had prepared for this
had planned for this
 by having 
cloaking functionality
a secret weapon
fast engines
a last resort every Remnant should have
do not
try not to
scan
our ships.
Careless scans costs lives.
Unasked for scans are unwelcome.
Scanning is a privilege to be earned.
It would be appreciated if
It would be helpful if
scanned
took a look at
kept an eye on
checked
my ship.
everything in the Ember Waste.
Doing a
Performing a
Carrying out a
sensor sweep
sweep
check
hitchhikers
clingers
unidentified objects
security breaches
hostile entities
on my ship
on our ships
on all ships
can be
quite helpful.
very useful.
essential for security.
much appreciated.
a good precaution.
Loose lips sink ships.
Careless talk costs lives.
Keep mum.
If no one knows we are here, no one can target us.
They cannot hunt what they do not know exists.
Kindly keep your knowledge of us to yourself.
Secrecy is the best defense.
If anyone asks, there is no one out here.
If anyone asks, there is nothing of interest out here.
you have
the prefects gave you
our elders allowed you
our government granted you
a license
a permit
permission to buy our outfits
our experts
our veterans
my friends
would suggest
would recommend
buying
equipping
getting
installing
outfitting your ship with
They are the best!
You should definitely try it!
Definitely better than those outfits in your space.
Since
permission to equip our outfits
Definitely better than those outfits in ancestral space.
those
 Inhibitor Cannons. 
Those weapons
slow
the enemy's thrusters
your target's steering
any ship's engines
and prevent them from escaping
and they won't stand a chance
several
Thrasher Cannons
Thrashers
Thrasher Turrets
Compared to
When placed beside
 your energy blasters, 
they are more efficient in terms of heat
you can deal more damage with our cannons
they may be consuming more energy, but they have better heat and damage
our cannons may be more expensive, but they have better damage
they are larger, but they can deal more damage and release less heat
they are a force to be reckoned with
an EMP Torpedo Bay. 
With a single shot, it
Firing one
One torpedo
deplete
the enemy's systems
your target's batteries
your enemy's shields
the target's engines
one or two
a dozen
 salvage scanners. 
They combine outfit and tactical scanners into one package
Compared to the separated versions, our scanner is far more powerful
They have a longer range than your outfit scanner
Those babies scan fast
They are a must-have for plundering
Have you heard
Do you know
You know anything
 about 
Quarg
Coalition far west of our space
They look strong
They look weak
Maybe we should contact them
I think they are dangerous
I think they are good
I think we can trust them
I want to plunder their tech
I want their ships
I have not seen them yet
I wonder if the prefects already knew about them
Are they strong
Are they weak
Are they friendly
Are they hostile
How strong are they
What are the odds of capturing their ships
Has your government met them
Is it worth trying to get my hands on their tech?
Be careful
Stay alert
Be vigilant
 about the 
Alphas in this galaxy
pirates in your space
Korath raiders
Korath
You don't want to get yourself killed
It is dangerous to encounter them
Always have some weapons in case you come across them
We have ships that can cloak in case you find yourself in a tricky situation with them
(It consists of signs so complex that any regular human wouldn't understand, but it seems that they don't like you.)
Apparently,
 you are 
not all that different from
very similar to
like
a Korath
Too bad
I hope you go up in flames
You backstabbed us
You lied to us
You betrayed our trust
 thought 
Why are you doing this
Are you insane
Did I hurt you
we were 
friends
comrades
teammates
allies
you were 
not like the Alphas
not like the pirates
not hostile
Although they are unusually tall and dark-skinned, the people here appear to be human. You wouldn't know it from the architecture, however: the buildings with their curved, twisted surfaces and ramifying arches look more alien than any human dwelling you have seen before.
	Stranger still, no one is speaking: the usual background murmur of voices that you would associate with a spaceport is absent here. Instead, the locals are communicating in a rapid and graceful sign language, their hands tracing arcs through the air almost faster than your eyes can follow.
	A few of them approach your ship and one of them greets you out loud, but instead of speaking he sings the words in a high, monotone chant: "Do you comprehend the ancestral tongue?"
	(Say, "Yes, I do.")
	(Try to chant, "Yes, I do.")
	Their expressions are inscrutable; you aren't sure if they even understood you or not. They turn away from you for a second and converse in sign language.
	You sing, "Yes, I do," trying to match the leader's pitch. As you do so, several of them hum notes that harmonize with you.
	Two of them walk up to you. One is carrying a small device that looks like a handheld scanner. The other unwraps a small foil package, pulls out a lancet, and jabs his finger with it. A dark, red drop of blood wells up. He presses his finger onto a port on the scanner, then hands you another one of the packets. "We kindly request that you identify yourself," he chants. Several of the others hum along with him.
	(Give them a blood sample.)
	(Refuse to give them a sample.)
	(Run back to my ship and escape from here.)
	You run into your airlock, slam the door shut, and blast off from the planet. Already, several of their ships are moving to intercept you. It seems that you are no longer welcome in this region of space...
	You try to pull away, but the man's hand snakes out and grabs you by the wrist. Before you are even able to react he jabs your finger and shoves it onto the scanner. "You are in our space," he sings. "You will abide by our rules." No longer a monotone, his song is a jarring and atonal melody.
	Several of them gather around the one with the scanner as if waiting to see what the results will be. As you watch them you notice that all of them, even the women, have their hair cropped short. Also, their clothing looks like nothing that has ever been in fashion at any point in human history that you know of.
	Finally the scanner beeps, and a yellow light flashes. You can almost feel the tension leaving the air as the crowd relaxes. "So you are pure. You are human," chants one of the women. "You are one of us."
	"Of course I'm human. But what are human beings doing out here?"
	Several of them burst into song, singing together in harmony, "We are the hidden ones. We are the Remnant. In time of great chaos to this place we came, lest all true-born humans be killed or enslaved, by those who evolved not, but unwisely were made."
	As they continue to sing, you begin to piece together their story. They are the descendants of people who fled to this region of space through an unstable wormhole at the peak of the first Alpha War, which means they have been here for more than half a millennium. That doesn't explain why their culture is so radically different, though.
	Eventually they invite you to a dinner. Their food has strange and complex flavors, not all of them pleasant, but you do your best to be polite and pretend to enjoy it all. The meal itself is generous and stretches out as your hosts consume considerably more food than you would expect for such a trim group. After the meal, they entertain you by singing songs, some of which you recognize as classical Earth music. It appears that people in this culture use sign language for day to day communication, and use their voices only for making music.
	When you return to your ship, you do a search on videos of historical dialects of human sign language. None of them bear even a passing resemblance to the language of these people who call themselves the Remnant.
As you break orbit and get ready to escape, you receive a message from <planet>. A chant comes from your speakers.
	"My compatriots seem to have gotten off on the wrong foot. I am Prefect Chilia of the Remnant. We established ourselves here as a bastion of humanity to survive when the rest of human space was under threat by the Alphas.
	"The blood test we requested is mandatory for all who come to our worlds. We will not tolerate the presence of anyone of Alpha heritage. Should you agree to the blood test and pass, we will allow you to visit our worlds in peace."
	"Okay, I'll take the blood test."
	"I'm not taking any blood test."
	"Then leave immediately or be eliminated. You will not be welcomed here again."
	"Please return to <planet>. Be on your best behavior, as there will be no third chance."
The Remnant are a group of unusual-looking humans that live in a secluded section of the galaxy. It is unclear how long they have lived apart from the rest of humanity, but they have been free of human influences for long enough that their culture is wildly different from any found in human record. Their buildings seem to be alien in origin, and they communicate amongst each other primarily with sign language. When they do use their voices they sing or chant, rather than speak.
Half a millennium ago, during the Alpha Wars, a group of humans fleeing the conflict and looking for a safer place to live discovered a wormhole into a region of space known as the Ember Waste. They built settlements there, and chose to call themselves the Remnant. Although they no longer fear the Alphas as much as they once did, they still have not rejoined human society.
Since their colonies were first formed, the Remnant's culture has changed drastically. They communicate in sign language, using their voices only for singing. Their food and architecture and much of their technology is strange, and much of it has been borrowed or stolen from nearby alien species.
Your return trip is a bit more nerve-wracking. Unlike the previous time, your flight computer keeps blaring warnings that the ships escorting you are weapons-hot and locked on. As soon as you land, your ship is surrounded by soldiers with a variety of weapons, and the same man appears in the midst of them. As before, he pricks his finger, presses it to a spot on the device, then offers a still-sealed lancet to you. He begins chanting in a severe tone, "The first may be a misunderstanding, but now you know our law. Will you submit to a blood test, or be declared guilty once and for all?"
	(Provide the blood sample.)
	(Refuse and run for my ship.)
	As you turn to start running back to your ship, the soldiers nearby begin raising their weapons and firing at you. As you feel your body begin to liquefy under the assault of the strange energy bolts, the last thing you see is the look of pity, resignation, and confusion on the face of the man with the scanner. Probably wondering why you would decide to return if you were just going to run again. You suppose they'll never know...
	Eventually they invite you to a dinner. Their food has strange and complex flavors, not all of them pleasant, but you do your best to be polite and pretend to enjoy it all. After the meal, they entertain you by singing songs, some of which you recognize as classical Earth music. It appears that people in this culture use sign language for day to day communication, and use their voices only for making music.
You wander the <origin> spaceport feeling very lost in this strange region of space. Having flown around for a few weeks with no idea of how to get out, you wonder if you'll be stuck here forever.
	You sit down on a bench and think about how you're going to get out of this situation. While you think, an old woman approaches you and signs something.
	"Sorry, I don't understand."
	The old woman chuckles to herself. "You seem lost," she says. You nod. To your surprise, she doesn't sing everything she says like the other Remnant.
	"I'm guessing you don't know about the wormholes."
	"The what?"
	"I do, I just can't get through them."
	"There are red wormholes scattered around this region of space. You can only access them if you have a Key Stone on your ship, though. Don't ask me how it works, but that's how it is."
	"Lost your Key Stone?" she asks with another chuckle. "Or maybe your jump drive, and now you're stuck here? No problem."
	The woman reaches into a bag that she has with her and hands you a Quantum Key Stone. "Just put this on your ship and you can be on your way out of here."
	"You're just giving this to me?"
	She chuckles again. "No catch."
	The woman sits down on the bench next to you. "I was once lost in Republic space for many years after losing my Key Stone. I know what it can be like to be away from your people for that long, so I'd rather not see you share the same fate."
	"Thanks for the help. I'll go fit this on my ship."
	"How'd you get to Republic space?"
	You say goodbye to the woman and begin walking to your ship. "Safe travels, Captain," she sings with a big grin on her face as you walk away.
	"I was an adventurous spirit in my youth," she says. "One day I found my way out of the Ember Waste and back to what I learned was the rest of humanity. For years my people had hidden here believing the Alphas had killed everyone else, but I discovered that we had little to fear.
	"I explored the Republic for many months, learning what had happened since the Alpha Wars, but when I attempted to return to the Ember Waste to tell my people, I found that my Key Stone had been stolen at some point during my journey. I had no way to return."
	She lets out a long sigh. "I don't want to bore you with all the details, but I resigned myself to my new life. I met a man, had two daughters, but never lost hope of returning to my true home. One day, after my daughters had grown and my husband had passed in an accident, I decided to go on another adventure. I dusted off my old ship, and soon discovered the Hai."
	"The who?"
	"How you've become lost here without having discovered the Hai first is beyond me." She chuckles. "The Hai are a peaceful alien people north of humanity. Go looking for a purple wormhole in the uninhabited systems of the Far North. You may find your way there.
	"You've met the Hai?"
	"Well of course. How else would I have been able to return home?
	"To my surprise, the Hai had a large number of Quantum Key Stones." She pauses for a moment. "Might be a good idea for you to bring some of those Hai keystones here. Anyway, I was so thrilled that I didn't even ask any questions about how they had them. I bought one and flew as fast as I could back to the Ember Waste, and I've been here ever since."
	"How long ago was that?"
	"What about your daughters?"
	"Well I got lost when I was 17 and returned when I was 64, so perhaps some 130 years ago now that I returned." She chuckles at the surprised look on your face as you realize that she is nearly 200 years old. "Uncovering ancient alien technology is quite the blessing.
	"Oh, I only told them about deciding to travel the galaxy. Never told them about returning home. I made trips to see them every so often, but they both passed many decades ago now. It seems like the Republic can't quite get anyone to live past 130 years.
	"I really must get going, now," she says. The woman gets up to leave, but before walking away she turns to you and sings, "Safe travels, Captain," with a big grin on her face. You say goodbye to her in return and part ways.
Assist in defending <planet> from a Korath raid, then return to the planet.
In the relative quiet of this Remnant spaceport, it's unusually jarring when an alarm siren begins howling. All around you, people are rushing to get their ships into the air. Even though no one stops to explain to you what is happening, it's pretty clear that this is a planetary defense operation.
	(Assist the defenders.)
	(Stay here, and don't help them.)
	You remain behind on the planet. You probably just missed out on a great opportunity to earn the gratitude of the Remnant.
There are still Korath raiders circling overhead. You should take off and help the Remnant ships to fight them.
Remnant bounty
A Korath ship is flying around Remnant territory. Hunt it down and destroy it, then return to <planet> for payment.
The people here are grateful for your help in fighting off the Korath raid, and they offer you a payment of <payment>. They explain to you (in song, of course; the explanation takes the form of an epic ballad) that these raids have been taking place for nearly a century.
	"Have you done anything to try to stop the Korath from raiding you?"
	"What do you think the Korath are hoping to accomplish?"
	"Of course not," chants one of them. "Why would we give up a good opportunity to plunder new technology?" His voice is such a perfect monotone that you can't tell whether the comment was meant facetiously or not.
	"Perhaps they seek new territory, or perhaps they are just innately aggressive," chants one person.
	"Of course," says another, "the fact that our ships dump their cargo when the raiders attack probably makes us a tempting target."
	A third person explains, "We do that intentionally, to keep luring them back. The technology we gain when we manage to plunder one of their ships more than outweighs the cargo we lose."
	While you're conversing with the group, a uniformed woman walks up and tells them something in sign language. They sign back and point to you. She says to you, "Thank you for your help. A Korath ship that came with the raiders and fled the battle is still lurking around our territory. Would you be willing to hunt it down?"
	"Sorry, I don't have time to help you out."
	"Thank you," she sings. "It keeps jumping between systems in our territory. Maybe its jump drive was damaged or something, and it cannot escape. I will spread the information that you've taken on the bounty for hunting it, so others will not risk their lives fighting it."
You have destroyed the Korath ship that was left over from the raid on <planet>. You can now return there to collect your payment.
The same woman meets you when you land on <planet>. "Again, thank you," she says. "I will suggest to others that they might offer you similar bounty hunting jobs in the future." She pays you <payment>.
Recently, Korath ships have begun raiding Remnant worlds. The Remnant have decided not to try to discourage these raids, because they are a perfect opportunity to steal jump drives and other valuable alien technology from the Korath.
Remnant surveillance
Travel to the <waypoints> system, destroy any Korath ships you find there, then deploy a Remnant surveillance satellite to give them advance warning of Korath raids in the future. Return to <planet> when you are done.
A man approaches your ship soon after you collect your latest bounty, and sings, "You have been most helpful in fighting the Korath. Would you be willing to assist us in another way?"
	"Sure, tell me more."
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in helping you out anymore."
	He explains that they hope to gain advance notice of future raids by setting up remote surveillance equipment in the system in the Ember Waste that is closest to Korath space. The equipment will communicate with the Remnant via something called an "entangled particle pair" that does not require a hyperspace relay network. Ironically, this is technology that the Remnant acquired by raiding the Korath decades ago.
	"I will mark the target system on your map," he says, "and give you the equipment necessary to deploy the surveillance satellite. Please do not deploy it while any Korath ships are watching. Our scouts encountered Palavrets, but they have crippled them enough to where they should not be a problem."
Now that you are alone, you are able to deploy the Remnant surveillance satellite unobserved. Time to report back to <planet>.
You have returned to <planet>, but you haven't deployed the surveillance satellite yet. Return to <waypoints> and make sure that all of the Korath there have been eliminated.
When you return to <planet>, the same Remnant man meets you and says that they have begun receiving data from the surveillance satellite that you deployed. "Thank you for your assistance," he sings. He pays you <payment>.
	"You're welcome."
	"You know, a great way to say 'thank you' would be to offer me a license to buy your technology."
	He grins, very slightly. "That is not my decision alone to make," he says, "but I will put in a word for you and see what I can do."
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man comes up to you and introduces himself as the manager of the local outfitter. "Greetings, outsider," he says. "I have heard many good things about you and your assistance to our people. Would you be interested in going on a quest for me?"
	"What kind of quest?"
	"Please, I assure you, this quest will be very lucrative for you.
	"You may have noticed the red anomalies scattered within this region of space. What you may not have known is that these are wormholes, accessible only with the possession of a Quantum Key Stone. My people highly value these Key Stones because of this, but our mines produce very few of them." The manager shows you a Key Stone that he has with him.
	"We have explored all of the Ember Waste, but have been unable to find any large concentrations of these stones."
	"You seem to be able to easily explore outside of this region. If you manage to discover a source of Key Stones outside of the Ember Waste, would you please inform me of them?"
	"If I find anything, I'll let you know."
	"No thanks. This seems like a wild goose chase to me."
	The outfitter manager thanks you. "We'll discuss payment once you return," he says.
You find the outfitter manager and tell him that you have good news. "You found another world where the stones can be mined?" he asks.
	"I've seen that before," you say.
	He looks at you with surprise. "You found another world where these stones can be mined?"
	"Yes, in the territory of some aliens far to the north of here."
	"Yes, but I would prefer not to tell you where."
	"That is understandable," he says. "I am a businessman and I understand how valuable certain trade secrets can be. But perhaps I can interest you in a mutually profitable endeavor?"
	"Intriguing," he sings. "Are they aware of how valuable these stones are?" You tell him about the Hai, that they are an old species and that to them the Key Stones are just good luck charms. "Perhaps they have forgotten the true use of the Stones," says the man. "This may give us an opportunity for a mutually profitable endeavor."
	"Tell me more," you say.
	He says, "If you could fetch me a large supply of these stones, say fifty of them, I would purchase them from you for a high enough price that you would earn a tidy profit. What do you say?"
	"Sure, I would be glad to accept that deal."
	"Sorry, I'm really not interested in doing business with you Remnant folks."
	After a bit of haggling, he agrees to pay you six million credits in exchange for a cargo of fifty Hai "keystones." Given how cheap they are to purchase in Hai space, you will be earning a very tidy profit on the deal.
	"We look forward to receiving this shipment," he sings. "Just so we are clear, however: you do not need to install them on your ship - delivering them in your cargo hold will work just fine."
	"I can purchase outfits into my cargo bay?"
	"Why would you even need to specify that?"
	"Of course. There are several different methods available for doing so." He switches to a chant as he begins listing methods.
	"Firstly, our outfitter interface has a small toggle labeled 'in-cargo' that - when checked - will instruct the dockworkers to load any outfits you purchase into your cargo bay instead of installing it.
	"Secondly, if you do not have any ships selected in the outfitter control panel when you make a purchase, our logistics system will assign it for delivery to your cargo hold instead of scheduling an installation.
	"Lastly, if you have an outfit installed, just tap the 'U' key on the outfitter to request that the selected outfit be uninstalled. After removal they will be left in your cargo hold."
	He glances at his commlink and starts tapping at something. "We look forward to your return," he trills, before striding away still looking at his display.
	"What seems straightforward to you and I is not always so simple for others. I have met more than a few pilots who thought that outfits could only be transported installed on their hull." He smiles briefly at the thought before turning and heading away.
You visit the local outfitter and tell the manager that you have brought a shipment of "quantum keystones" to sell to him. He is overjoyed, and gladly pays you six million credits for them. You can't help noticing that based on how much the Key Stones sell for here, he will be earning even more profit than you did, even though you did nearly all the work.
	"You have made a valuable contribution to our people by doing this," he says. "These stones will allow more of our ships to explore the Ember Waste and discover the secrets that it holds."
Key Stones
The manager of the outfitter on <planet> is interested in finding alternative sources of Key Stones. The Remnant have explored the entire Ember Waste, so you will need to search elsewhere for these stones.
While exploring the Hai spaceport, you notice something interesting about some of the Hai ships. Many of them appear to be decorated with a stone that looks very similar to the Quantum Key Stones found in the Ember Waste. You ask a nearby Hai what they are, and she tells you that the stones are good luck charms that many Hai use on their ships that can be purchased from any Hai outfitter.
	You should return to the Remnant outfitter manager to tell him about the stones in Hai space.
The manager of the outfitter on <planet> has offered to pay you six million credits in exchange for a shipment of fifty quantum keystones (which you will have to purchase from the Hai).
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have 50 "quantum keystones" to give to the outfitter. Buy the keystones from the Hai before returning here.
Keystones
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man comes up to you and introduces himself as the manager of the local outfitter. He says, "I could not help but notice that you have a Key Stone that looks different from the ones from our mines. You may have noticed the red anomalies scattered within this region of space. What you may not have known is that these are wormholes, accessible only with the possession of a Quantum Key Stone. My people highly value these Key Stones because of this, but our mines produce very few of them. Have you found another world where these stones can be mined?"
Space creatures
A man on the Remnant homeworld of <planet> asked you to collect data on some strange space creatures in the <waypoints> system, in another part of the Ember Waste.
As you explore the spaceport, you meet a Remnant man wearing some sort of optical prosthesis over his eyes, a visor with several tiny cameras mounted on it. "Ah," he sings, "the outsider. Human yet not of our culture, distinct from our mindset. That is useful. Would you be willing to invest in a research project?"
	"Perhaps. Tell me more."
	"Excellent," he sings. "Centuries ago, we discovered some space-dwelling organisms elsewhere in the Waste, and undertook to study them. Certain mistakes were made, certain underestimations, and we can no longer safely approach these organisms. Would you be willing to visit their home system and collect some sensor data? I call this an investment, because I cannot pay you until I publish the results of these studies."
	"Yes, I'd be glad to."
	"Wait, that sounds super shady. Can you explain why you think it's safe for me to enter that star system, but not for you to do so?"
	He says, "We studied the organisms and determined that they could not possibly be sentient. Therefore we saw no moral issues with collecting, well, ah... a sample. Unexpected things happened and certain grudges have been, ah, borne against Remnant ships for centuries as a result."
	"Well, as long as you don't ask me to do something that will get me in similar trouble, I'll help you out."
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in helping you."
	"Are you sure?" he chants. "We could learn some incredible things."
	"No, I'm really not interested."
	"Fine, tell me what you want me to do."
	He sings, "Thank you. To begin with, all I ask is that you visit this star system and scan the creatures with certain special equipment that I will provide. Report back to me when you are done."
	"How should I find you?"
	"What is your name?"
	"Don't worry," he says, "I will find you. You are our only visitor from the outside in many decades; when you land here, it quickly becomes known."
	He says, "My name is..." and then performs an elaborate gesture with his hands. "Do not worry if you can not perform my name," he says, "I will seek you out when you land. You will not need to ask around for me."
There are indeed some strange space-faring life forms in this system. You collect measurements with the special sensors, and then prepare to return to <planet>.
You have returned to <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <waypoints> to scan the void sprites, or your escort carrying the scanning equipment has not arrived in the system.
Scan the void sprites
Return to the <waypoints> system, and use an outfit scanner on one of each of the types of void sprites to see if you can tell how their propulsion works.
Sure enough, soon after you land, the Remnant researcher with the optical prosthesis arrives at your ship. When he looks at the data that you collected using his special scanners, he is disappointed. He chants, "I had hoped the scanners would show us how the creatures are able to generate enough force to fly out of the gravity wells of their planets, but this tells me nothing. Perhaps it would help if you scan them more closely. Could you equip your ship with one of the scanners that are used to inspect the outfits that ships are carrying, and see if that scanner yields additional information?"
	"Okay, I'll install an outfit scanner and see what it can tell me."
	"Are you sure they won't interpret the scanner beam as an attack?"
	"I doubt it," he says. "It is a very low-power beam. And after all, you were not attacked just now when you scanned them with my equipment."
	"Wait, are you saying that you thought I might get attacked last time around, and you didn't tell me that?"
	He says, "It was a small enough chance that I did not see a need to worry you."
	"Sorry, I don't want to help with this project anymore."
You land on <planet>, but you haven't scanned the void sprites in <waypoints>. Make sure you scan all the void sprites using an outfit scanner.
Visit void sprite planets
Use the Puffin to explore the two gas giants where the void sprites live. Then, return to <planet>.
The Remnant researcher has another job for you, but you're going to have to free up some cargo space in order to take it on.
The Remnant researcher seems disappointed that an outfit scan didn't reveal any information about the void sprites, but he is also excited about a new idea for studying them. "I found that we have several old mothballed ships suitable for exploring the upper atmosphere of a gas giant," he says. "Until I can publish my results I will not have the resources to compensate you, but I can provide you with one of our ships. Then you could land on the void sprite worlds and observe them in their natural habitat."
	"How much will it cost to buy one?"
	"Didn't you say before that anyone entering that system in a Remnant ship gets attacked?"
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in helping you anymore."
	"Only a few million credits," he says. "Do not worry, I will provide you with one. Consider it an advance on the resources I owe you. And, just think of how much you will be doing to advance the cause of science."
	"Do not worry about it," he says. "These exploration craft are exceptionally fast and maneuverable. Even if you do provoke a negative reaction, you should be able to dodge any direct confrontation."
	"Sorry, that's more than I'm willing to commit to."
	"Excellent," he says. "This ship is an antique, so be careful with the shields. They are projected around the ship and are unable to adapt to new obstacles. Hard-shell shields, I believe they were called at the time of the Exodus, as opposed to the skin shields of today that fit close to the hull." He pauses and looks thoughtful, then continues. "Just make sure nothing valuable is near the hull when the shields activate - it will either be sheared in two or break the shields. And it is important to know that the pressure suit included with the ship is able to remotely activate and deactivate the shields and other ship systems."
	He moves to step away, then looks back at you. "My notes indicate that there is a superstition about how visiting Crataegusa in the Cardea system was considered to bring good fortune to explorers. There is no scientific reason that should be the case, but might be worth landing on it anyway."
You have dodged the Archon and landed on the second of the two gas giants where the void sprites live. The hull of your tiny ship creaks and groans under the high atmospheric pressure, but seems to be holding together. Its sensors pick up flocks of void sprites floating between the planet's cloud layers, presumably feeding on airborne creatures too small to detect from this range.
	You also observe some void sprites leaving the planet, soaring upward on thermal updrafts. As they rise, their bodies swell to several times their original size, like an aerostat balloon gaining altitude. But clearly they have another form of propulsion as well, something akin to the antigravity repulsors that human ships use to travel from a planet's surface into orbit.
	After collecting some atmospheric samples for good measure, you prepare to return to <planet>. Hopefully the Archon will calm down once it sees that you have not attacked or disturbed the Sprites on either of these planets.
The "void sprites" are space-dwelling lifeforms. They are apparently not sentient. They evolved in the atmosphere of a gas giant, but have some biological mechanism for altering or reflecting gravity that allows them to fly into outer space, in the same way that human ships use antigravity to escape a planet's gravity well. The void sprites are not particularly powerful or dangerous creatures, but they are guarded by a Drak Archon.
Archons are partly biological, but do not seem to be naturally evolved creatures. Some of their biological characteristics may have been based on the "void sprites" that inhabit the Ember Waste.
The Remnant researcher is ecstatic when he sees all the data you collected. "I will begin assembling this into a research paper immediately!" he sings. "It may be months before it is published, but when it is you will be named as a co-author, and I will share the credit with you."
	"What do you know about the Archon that attacked me?"
	"I'm glad I could help you out. I'll look forward to hearing from you."
	He begins singing you a song about the Archons. The song says that the Archons are servants of the mysterious Drak, whom no one has seen but whom the Quarg claim to speak to and take orders from. "That's all our histories say," he sings, "but what interests me is the biological similarities between the Archons and the void sprites. We do not think the Archons are naturally evolved creatures. Perhaps their creators incorporated elements of void sprite biology into them when they were made. Or perhaps the Archons just feel an affinity with them because they are both space-faring organisms."
	"Well, I'll look forward to hearing the results of your research when it is done."
	"Do you think the Archons will continue to be angry at me?"
	He says, "As long as you did not harm any of the void sprites, I doubt they will bear you a permanent grudge. The Archons are thinking creatures, after all; they cannot blame you for your curiosity."
	You thank him for the information and tell him that you will look forward to reading the results of his study (and, getting paid for your help) once it is complete.
License Training
Transport a prefect to <destination> so he can tell you more about the Remnant license.
An elderly man approaches your ship and introduces himself as a local "prefect," presumably some sort of government position. In a song so elaborate that he must have composed and practiced it ahead of time, he informs you that a scientific study on the void sprites has just been published, and as the co-author you are entitled to a payment of two million credits, which he presents to you.
	"When your name came up in the study," he says, "I asked around and discovered that you have helped us in other ways as well. The other prefects have reached a consensus that you should be considered a valuable friend of the Remnant, and shall henceforth be given permission to purchase our ships and technology." He hands you a small cube that looks like it is made of interlocking blocks of material similar to their ships.
	"I'm honored. Thank you."
	"Is there anything else I can do to assist your people?"
	"I do not have anything at the moment," he says, "but I am sure other Remnant will have tasks you can help with, now that you have demonstrated your trustworthiness. We have been keeping track of you, and we are impressed with your curiosity, perseverance, and ability to survive where most would be destroyed. All three are valued characteristics among the Remnant, and thus many will welcome your assistance on their projects."
	As he talks, he gestures for you to walk with him towards a nearby hall. Inside, you discover that it is one of the many cafeterias that seem to be common in Remnant starports. He picks up two trays from the window and leads you to an empty table. "While you are welcome to become one of us, we suspect that you are a citizen of the galaxy - wandering hither and yon building coalitions and enmities with species and groups across the breadth of accessible space, unfettered by conventional allegiances. As such, we hope that you will continue to explore and stop by to let us know what you have found. We ask only that you keep the secret with which you are trusted and bring us word of anything that might influence humanity's long-term survival."
	"What secret do you want me to keep?
	"I would be honored to be one of the Remnant."
	"While I have enjoyed my time among you, I can never stay in one place."
	"What constitutes 'things that influence humanity's survival'?"
	He takes a bite before responding. "Basically, anything that might either pose an existential threat to humanity, or anything that we might learn from and put to use to ensure humanity's survival. It might be an invading fleet of automated machines or a spaceborn plague. But it is just as possible you might find beings that we can work alongside to form strong partnerships or ancient ruins with old technology that points us towards new discoveries. The possibilities are indeed infinite.
	He nods, smiling. "You are not there yet, but I think you might well become one of us before too long." He takes a bite from his plate, then continues. "Keep learning, and you may well earn yourself a place among us."
	He nods. "Thank you for confirming our impression. We are grateful to have you with us, and look forward to hearing about your travels."
	He sips on a thick drink before responding. "Quite simply, the fact that we are here. To the best of our knowledge, only the Drak and the Korath know that we exist, and of those only the Korath have raided our worlds. Our intention is to be the last bastion of humanity, and we rely on secrecy to achieve that goal." He pauses for a moment to eat, then he continues. "The Alphas are a fearsome threat, but they may be the least of humanity's worries in the grand scheme of things. We strive to maintain whatever advantages we can in case any of those threats proves itself such, and one of our best tools is surprise. If no one knows we are here, we have the advantage over any that might seek to conquer or destroy us.
	"Of course, maintaining the secrecy of our capabilities is also very important - and the reason why you had to prove yourself before we let you purchase our ships and outfits - but it is secondary to the fundamental secrecy of our existence. Ideally, no one should know we exist. Those who do know should think of us as little more than refugees struggling to survive in a hostile environment."
	He waves dismissively. "I am sure you have more questions, but let us leave it there for now. Our meals await, and, well, I need to show you some things in regards to our security procedures. So finish your meal, and let's head over to <destination>."
Once you reach space, the prefect interrupts your normal routine. "I'm sure you've noticed that your 'license' isn't exactly a normal ID card. There's a reason for that, namely that it has extra circuitry in it and includes a couple sensors on the surface. I don't understand everything in it, but the security specialists assure me that it is incredibly resistant to being hacked or compromised."
	"Okay, sounds good."
	"How do you know what regular licenses look like?"
	The old man smiles. "While we might not have access to modern licenses, we do have all our old entertainment programs from before the Exodus. Some of them included details such as what licenses looked like. While things might have changed in the intervening years, licenses were historically governed by petty bureaucracy, and those are very resistant to change. So it seemed very likely that things have not changed much. And definitely not so much as to resemble ours." He seems amused, but then his smile fades.
	"Then again, ancestral space never designed their licenses to withstand much. They are incentivized to be not so secure, are they not? Enough money and the right connections, and licenses for anything can be acquired. These?" He holds up a Remnant license. "Not so much." He shakes his head and becomes serious. "Now, your license has a handful of connection pads on the bottom which can be connected to your ship's IFF. When you are inbound for landing, simply tap this code on the license, and the cube will verify the pattern as well as your fingerprints and a few other biometrics to ensure you are indeed living and conscious, and then transmit an encrypted code. Our IFF systems will verify the transmitted signal and respond accordingly."
	"That sounds thorough."
	"So why have I not been shot down yet?"
	"What is an 'IFF' system?"
	"You aren't familiar with IFF?" he asks, looking slightly incredulous. "IFF stands for 'Identify Friend or Foe,' and is the general name for the system that identifies your ship to those around it. It is what determines which ships should be highlighted red or orange on your system map, and provides limited movement detail to allied ships so that targeting systems can fire past you. I do not know about their current practices, but historically the Navy and most other organizations had complex methods of verifying the identify of other ships, so it is not simply a case of having your IFF state that you are a friendly."
	"Because every system has potential failures and vulnerabilities, we ensure that people are always involved in the decision making process. Our initial scans showed that you were not likely an Alpha, and we were curious as to who you were and what opportunities might come of it. Since then the various monitors of the system have had to manually designate you as 'friendly' every time you made an approach. It worked, for a time. But now it is time to make your acceptance official. While our monitors are effective, it still wastes time to force them to track you and cancel the alerts every time you approach. Since you are trustworthy, better to give you the means to identify yourself so our defenses can focus on real threats.
	The prefect nods in agreement. "We take our security very seriously.
	"Now, before we arrive at <planet>, pick a pattern for yourself. Something short - a second or two at most, and something memorable to you." The prefect turns away from you to install a small device on the side of one of your bridge consoles, and connects a few wires into the panel. "Now, insert your license here, and tap your pattern on the license." He looks away as you follow his directions.
	"Done? Good. When we approach <planet>, you will have a few options: for a normal approach when everything is nominal, tap your pattern on the license. If there is a threat following you in - an enemy ship or some other kind of danger you want the monitors to watch for, pinch or squeeze the license instead. And if you have a problem onboard, such as having been captured and forced to fly the ship in, tap the license in a random pattern. Lastly, if you are having trouble landing due to injury or damage to the ship, just press briefly on the license. If you don't touch the license at all, the monitors will assume that you are either incapacitated or otherwise not in command of your ship. We will still attempt to let you land safely and provide assistance, but will also be standing ready to destroy you and block your approach if we think you are becoming a threat."
As you enter the upper atmosphere of <planet>, the prefect gestures toward the small bracket he installed on your console. You insert your license and tap the pattern you created. He checks his commlink and then nods. "Your license and clearance have been accepted, Captain <first>. Carry on with landing as normal."
	You proceed with the approach and landing, with the prefect pointing out noteworthy features along the way. He also points out various approach paths, including preferred routes to take if you are being chased. "If you have a hostile threat on your tail, take this landing corridor, which will expose trailing ships to fire from these points. And if you have something sticking tight in your shadow, do a roll at this point or that point. That will expose them to our high-precision batteries."
	"Thank you for the advice."
	"I'm surprised you are telling me all this."
	"Oh, do not worry that you know too much. There are far more defenses that I have not mentioned, and we are always improving them. Generally, our defenses should be invisible to you - as in, they stay out of your way."
	Your approach goes smoothly, and you glide past a number of anti-air batteries that are methodically covering the sky around you. Once the <ship> has settled safely to the ground, the prefect pulls the license from the socket and hands it back to you. "At the risk of sounding like a parody: keep it secret, keep it safe. May the Embers burn bright for you." And with that, the old prefect walks off your ship.
Learn Remnant Sign
Travel to <destination> for more lessons on how to speak using Remnant sign language.
As you make your way through the spaceport, you become increasingly aware of how quiet it is. Looking around, you note that it doesn't seem any less busy than usual, just that only a handful of people are paying attention to you. As a result, they have reverted to their normal gestures instead of singing. It feels oddly isolating, and eerie, to realize that there are hundreds of conversations going on around you, yet you can't understand a single one.
	(Ask someone to teach me.)
	Looking around the spaceport, you eventually find someone at what looks like an information desk.
	"I would like to learn your sign language."
	(Sing a short verse about not understanding people because my hands are still.)
	She looks at you with a confused expression, her hands making a few quick gestures. After a moment she points at the hand scanner embedded in the desk.
	She looks surprised, but then recovers and sings a verse about how hands can learn, but must be cautious, and gestures at the hand scanner embedded in the desk.
	As you place your hand on the scanner, you feel a quick tingle as it scans your hand, then a pinprick as it extracts a drop of blood. The lady behind the desk looks at her screen. She nods, taps on the screen a few times, then retrieves a data pad from beneath the desk.
	She hands the pad to you, and sings a brief verse about perseverance and hope.
	Back on your ship you flip the pad on. The data pad appears to be loaded with a number of historic musicals and operas where the meaning of the lyrics has been replicated with gestures as subtitles. It is interspersed with what appear to be Remnant children's videos slowly explaining gestures and pausing to give you the opportunity to practice.
	You spend a few hours going through the lessons. It takes a while to start vaguely understanding the signs, but you eventually learn how to sign a number of basic phrases. Eventually, the pad goes black and a note pops up on the screen informing you that additional lessons are available from the director's desk on Aventine.
While searching for the director's desk in the Aventine spaceport, you are very conscious of all the conversations going on around you. You manage to catch a word here and there, but not enough to understand the conversations. With some trouble, you ask for directions using what you have learned, and you arrive at a similar desk in a busy plaza.
	It looks like the person behind the desk has been expecting you. They gesture very slowly, asking how your lessons are going using very basic signs and songs. After a few minutes of conversation, they ask you to place your hand on the scanner, which takes a sample of your blood, and then give you a data chip with more lessons.
	You return to your ship and begin going through the lessons. These lessons focus more on purely conversing through sign with almost no singing.
	Just as last time, the screen goes black and reveals a note saying that there will be a final package of lessons waiting for you on Viminal.
As soon as you land, you look around for someone to ask directions from. Approaching a dockhand who doesn't appear to be busy, you carefully sign, "Can you direct me to the port director?" He looks at you curiously for a moment and replies with exaggerated slowness. You thank him and head towards the spaceport following his directions.
	Once again the director seems to be expecting you, and has a simple conversation with you about how the flight was and how your lessons are progressing. You manage to convey that you have learned a bit, and he gives you a few tips on your rehearsed phrases before directing you to place your hand on the scanner. Once again, the scanner takes a sample of your blood.
	(Sign asking what the scanners are for.)
	(Sing a verse about my confusion of the hand scanners.)
	The man begins to sign, but then realizes that you don't understand much of what he is signing, so he switches to singing. "Long ago it was decided that being infiltrated by Alpha agents was a big risk, and we couldn't depend on our interstellar network to remain secure. So we implemented a policy where the first time a Remnant is granted formal access to a new planet their purity and identity is verified. Thus even if someone hacked our networks to give themselves a clean identity, they would still be caught when they started working on a new planet. We also don't broadcast that requirement on our networks, simply enforce it locally. It isn't foolproof, but it adds an additional layer of safety."
	You thank the man for explaining the scanners to you and accept the next set of lessons.
	You spend a few hours viewing some of the lessons, one of which involves watching an ancient show about a merchant captain making his way through the galaxy with an unlikely crew, re-enacted by a cast of Remnant who sing and sign their way through the dialogs with exaggerated simplicity. It is oddly familiar, but you can't quite place it. You notice that it seems to have a lot of subtext about the dangers of manipulation and government secrecy, especially surrounding genetics.
	Skimming through the rest of the lessons, you notice that there is a lot more here than the last two times. It may take some time to get through it all, but you should be fairly fluent if you practice over a couple of months.
As you make your way into the spaceport, it occurs to you that one of the information directors who gave you the instructional videos might appreciate how much you have learned over the past months of practice. You stretch your fingers and stop by the desk where you are able to have a simple conversation with the information director.
	"Congratulations, Captain <last>!" the director signs. "Your fluency is good enough that even those unwilling to sing with a stranger should be comfortable working with you. At this rate you will be one of us in more ways than just by blood. I look forward to seeing what results from your work with us." The director is interrupted by the arrival of other Remnant asking for something and bids you farewell with an apologetic gesture.
Investigate Ivan
Travel to <stopovers> where Ivan's office is in order to ask him what he knows about the Ember Waste, then return to <destination> with your findings.
	While wandering the spaceport, you think back to the scientists from the Deep that you helped discover the Ember Waste. Given that the Remnant value their secrecy, they may be interested in knowing about this.
	(Find a prefect to tell.)
	(Don't tell the Remnant.)
	While wandering the spaceport, you think back to the scientists researching the wormhole in Terminus. Given that the Remnant value their secrecy, they may be interested in knowing about this.
	You ask one of the Remnant in the spaceport where you would be able to find a prefect, and they point you to what looks like an information desk of sorts. There you tell the attendant that you have something potentially important to discuss in regards to Remnant security. They tap a few buttons then give you directions down a hallway. You quickly find yourself in an armory where several Remnant guards are in the process of cleaning their weapons. One stands up and comes over to you.
	"Greetings, Captain. I am Prefect Torza. I was told you had information that could be important to our security." He takes a seat on a bench on the far side of the room from the other Remnant and gestures for you to do the same. "What do you have to tell us?"
	"I helped a group of scientists from the Deep to discover the Ember Waste."
	"A group of scientists from the Deep has discovered the Ember Waste."
	Torza's eyes go wide. "Why would you do this?" he asks. "Do you not understand that our secrecy is of upmost importance?"
	"I don't believe that they will be a threat to you."
	"I'm sorry, but I helped them before coming to understand this."
	Torza seems to relax slightly. "This is unfortunate. I cannot get angry at you for that which you did not understand. But now that you do understand, seek to not make this same mistake in the future.
	"What do they know?"
	"I helped a group of scientists who were researching the wormhole in Terminus."
	"I discovered that a group of scientists are researching the wormhole in Terminus."
	"Do they know how to enter it?" Torza asks, not sounding concerned with this new information.
	"No," you say. "But they know, or at least think, that it is a wormhole, and are attempting to learn how to enter it."
	"Well, it is unlikely that they will ever learn. The only way to stabilize the wormholes is by using a Key Stone, but I have never heard of one being found in Ancestral space. Learning what these scientists know would still be helpful, though. Would you be able to get us a copy of their findings?"
	"I'll try. The lead scientist told me where his office is."
	"I'm sorry, but I don't believe I'll be able to."
	"This is unfortunate," Torza responds. "But thank you for informing us about this. I do not expect anything to come of this for now, but should anything occur we can be more prepared than we otherwise would have been." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "May the Embers burn bright for you."
	"This is good," Torza responds. "Once you have the findings, simply return to the spaceport here and give them to the information desk. We will look over them shortly thereafter." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "Have a safe journey, Captain. May the Embers burn bright for you."
	Since you last told the Remnant about Ivan's research on the wormhole in Terminus, you have helped him to discover the Ember Waste. The Remnant may be interested in being updated on Ivan's progress.
	(Don't update the Remnant.)
	You approach a spaceport information desk and ask to see Prefect Torza, who you spoke to the last time you informed the Remnant about the Deep researching the wormhole. Luckily, Torza is on-world at the moment, and you are told to meet him in the cafeteria. When you arrive, you find that Torza has just finished a meal and was leaving.
	"Ah, Captain. I was told you were looking for me. We should find a private place to talk."
	You follow Torza to a similar armory as before. "Is there an update to the research on the Threshold that the Deep are doing?" he asks after sitting down.
	"I've helped the scientists learn how to pass through the wormhole."
	"The scientists have discovered how to pass through the wormhole."
	"Liar!" Torza yells at you while standing up from the bench. "You told us of these scientists after we had already trusted you with a license." Torza walks away from you angrily, then turns his head.
	"It is not a matter of them being a threat," Torza says angrily. "They may be peaceful, but who they tell or who may learn from them may not.
	Torza's eyes go wide. "What do they know?"
	"They know where the Remnant are in the Ember Waste."
	"They have scans of a few Remnant ships."
	"They have samples of some Remnant technology."
	"They are actively surveilling Remnant worlds."
	"They don't know about the Remnant, at least not yet."
	"They have only discovered the void sprites."
	Torza seems to calm down greatly after hearing this. "This is most fortunate. We will need to work to ensure that this remains the case."
	Torza seems to calm down greatly after hearing this. "Then may they not anger the Archon with their curiosity, as we have."
	Torza pauses for a long while. "I assume it only makes sense that they would know of us after discovering the Ember Waste."
	Torza pauses for a long while. "These scientists knowing of our whereabouts is much more of a concern than them having scans of our ships."
	"And you were the one who brought it to them," Torza responds.
	"Yes, but what I do with your technology after buying it is none of your concern."
	"No, they obtain it by other means."
	"Yes, but it is no different than me bringing technology from the Republic to you."
	"No, they obtained it by other means."
	Torza scowls in response to this, but doesn't say anything.
	"What you do with our technology is much of a concern to us!" Torza yells.
	Torza grits his teeth. "There are no reports of missing ships or outfits, and the only visitor capable of delivering our technology is you."
	"How are they doing this?" Torza asks.
	"Surveillance devices have been placed in each of your spaceports."
	"I don't know. I only know that they are."
	Torza punches a wall in anger, then relaxes. "Thank you for telling us this. We will search for and remove these devices immediately."
	"Whatever methods they are using, we will discover them in due time," Torza says.
	Torza begins tapping on a data pad. "We must act to rectify this situation," he says calmly.
	"I presume that you know of the whereabouts of these scientists. Would you be able to get us a copy of their findings?"
	"You have brought us the information that these scientists had before. I ask that you do so again."
	"I'll return with their information as quickly as I can."
	"This is unfortunate," Torza responds. "But thank you for informing us about this. We will be on high alert to see if these scientists make any moves deeper into the Ember Waste." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "May the Embers burn bright for you."
	"This is unfortunate," Torza responds. "But thank you for informing us about this. We will be on high alert to see if these scientists make any moves deeper into the Ember Waste." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "We may also be keeping a closer eye on you going forward to avoid another situation like this."
	"This is unfortunate," Torza responds. "Very unfortunate. We will be on high alert to see if these scientists make any moves. I at least commend you for giving what information you have to us." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out without another word.
	"Then perhaps the Remnant should reassess their trust placed in you," Torza responds. "We will be on high alert to see if these scientists make any moves. I at least commend you for giving what information you have to us, but know that you will be watched closely by us from now on." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out without another word.
	"This is good," Torza responds. "Once you have the findings, simply return to the spaceport here and give them to the information desk. We will look over them shortly thereafter." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "Have a safe journey, Captain. But know that we may be keeping a closer eye on you going forward to avoid another situation like this."
	"This is good," Torza responds. "Once you have the findings, simply return to the spaceport here and give them to the information desk. We will look over them shortly thereafter." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out without another word.
	"This is good," Torza responds. "Once you have the findings, simply return to the spaceport here and give them to the information desk. We will look over them shortly thereafter." Torza gets up from the bench and shows you out. "Know that you will be watched closely by us from now on, Captain. I commend you for agreeing to bring us this information, but we cannot allow another situation like this to occur."
retrieved information
	You look up the location of Ivan's office that he gave you back when you helped him save the science drone in Terminus and find that it is in a building just outside the spaceport, just one room among many in a massive office complex. The complex looks pristine by Dirt Belt standards, but when compared to architecture you've seen elsewhere in the Deep, it's rather brutalistic.
	You ask a receptionist what Ivan's room number is, and he points you to a room on the twentieth floor. After taking an elevator up, you knock on the door to Ivan's office.
	"Who is it?" Ivan says before peaking out the blinds. "Oh! Captain <last>! Please, come in."
	Ivan opens the door and lets you inside. The office is cramped, the walls almost entirely obscured by filing cabinets. Ivan walks over to a desk that he barely has space to get behind, picking up a collection of papers and shoving them into the nearest cabinet. "Sorry about the mess," he says nervously. "I didn't know you were coming. Is there something I can help you with?"
	"I was wondering if you'd found out anything new about the anomaly in Terminus."
	"Do you think I could get a copy of your research on the anomaly in Terminus?"
	"Oh, yes. We haven't been able to do too much with what funding we have left, but we have made one important discovery." Ivan turns to one of his filing cabinets and pulls out some sort of graphic that you would guess is depicting the anomaly, but you can't make any sense of it.
	"One of our ideas has been that the anomaly is some sort of unstable wormhole. Reports of its existence go back to at least the times of the first Alpha War, with rumors that ships have left for Terminus to never return, presumably having entered the anomaly somehow. Now I'm not one to go off of rumors, but they certainly have to come from somewhere, so the idea was at least worth investigating.
	"Going under the assumption that it is a wormhole that is simply too unstable to allow a ship to pass through, we wanted to see if we could get anything at all to pass through. What we've discovered is that given a small and smooth enough object, we can get it to disappear within the anomaly without a trace." He then pulls out a small metallic sphere about the size of a ping pong ball from one of the cabinets which he holds onto by a wire.
	"Now this is only a model, but we created a number of small sensors about this size and sent them through the anomaly. We'd hoped that we could take some readings from whatever is on the other side of the anomaly, as it clearly goes somewhere, but we only ever get static coming back through the wire, followed by nothing a few minutes later. And unfortunately, whatever we send in we can't seem to pull back. The wire always snaps.
	"So the anomaly is clearly a wormhole. Now we just need to figure out how to get whatever we send into it to come back, and how to get something the size of a ship to enter it."
	"Sounds like you're making good progress," you respond. "Do you think I could get a copy of your research so far?"
	"A copy?" Ivan looks off into space for a moment. "Well, I suppose since you helped us from losing valuable equipment, I could make an exception for you. I typically don't share findings with those not on my research team until they're finalized. I've been burned one too many times because of that."
	Ivan moves to another filing cabinet and pulls out a number of folders. "This will be for your eyes only. Promise you won't share this with anyone."
	"I promise."
	"I'll try."
	"Funny," Ivan says with a blank expression.
	"Let me just get these folders digitized for you, then I can hand you a data chip with everything on it. It'll only be a few minutes."
	Ivan leaves the room with all the folders, and when he returns, he hands you a data chip before shoving all the folders back into the filing cabinet. "Well, anything else you need?"
	"No. That's all I was here for," you respond. "Good luck on the rest of your work."
	"Thank you," Ivan says. "We might be in touch in the future. I might need your help again for this project, hopefully during a less dire situation than last time."
	You return to the office complex where Ivan's office is and ask the receptionist if Ivan is available, and he looks at you with confusion.
	You ask a receptionist what Ivan's room number is, and he looks at you with confusion.
	"Ivan Haataja? He moved out weeks ago. Said something about 'moving up in this world' while dragging a pallet of filing cabinets out of the building. I can look up where he is now if you need me to."
	"I'd appreciate that," you say.
	The receptionist spends a few minutes tapping away at a keyboard. "Looks like he had his office moved to... the Deep Polytechnic Institute of Valhalla?" he says with a surprised look. "Oh wow, must have gotten someone's attention in the government to be moved there. Do you need directions?"
	You get directions from the receptionist and thank him for his time. Turns out this Institute is in the heart of the university district of the spaceport city. Several planets in the Deep, Paradise Worlds, and even many near Earth have a similar university district, but the one on Valhalla is the largest of its kind in the entire Republic.
	As you enter the district, you note that the architecture here is much more appealing than the brutalistic architecture of Ivan's old office building. The buildings consist of more curves than right angles with a textured metallic surface that scatters the sunlight to give the area a warm glow, as opposed to directing it right into your eyes if you happen to be standing in the wrong spot. Even among all the metallic buildings, there is still a good amount of greenery: well-trimmed bushes and trees line the streets, and many of the buildings are topped with gardens.
	You ascend the stairs of the Institute, the massive building looming over you as you approach. Its more ancient design makes the building stand out from the rest of the district, the entrance being guarded by massive marble pillars that manage to not clash with the metallic sheen of the rest of the buildings. The interior is similarly impressive, with a massive lobby area centered by an impressive water fountain.
	You approach one of the receptionist desks and ask to see Ivan Haataja. "It looks like he's available right now," she says. "We'll let him know you're coming and have someone here to escort you to Doctor Haataja's office shortly."
	You're escorted through what seems like endless hallways and stairwells, the entire building being as impressively decorated as the lobby, before finally coming to Ivan's office. You thank the escort for bringing you here (as you would have been lost for hours without him, surely why they have people just for escorting guests) and knock on Ivan's door.
	Ivan opens the door with a big smile on his face. "Captain <last>! So great to see you here. Please, have a seat." Ivan ushers you inside his office, an impressively large room with a window wall overseeing a beautiful courtyard. You sit down in a cushioned chair on the opposite side of a desk. You lean back into the chair and get comfortable. "I know the chairs are cozy," Ivan says. "Don't fall asleep on me though."
	Ivan then takes a seat in his own cushioned chair. "Welcome to my office. This is miles above what I'm used to. After gaining the attention of the Deep government with the discoveries we were making, they immediately had my office moved from the dingy complex it used to be at to here. I have you to thank for much of that work.
	Ivan then takes a seat in his own cushioned chair. "Welcome to my office. Much better than the old place, isn't it? After gaining the attention of the Deep government with the discoveries we were making, they immediately had my office moved from that dingy complex to here. I have you to thank for much of that work.
	"So. What brings you here, Captain?" he asks.
	"I was wondering what your research on the wormholes and alien creatures has brought up."
	"Could I get a copy of your research on the wormholes and alien creatures?"
	"Ah. Well, there's quite a bit to talk about." Ivan reclines his chair.
	"As far as the wormholes go, we're still trying to theorize how the wormholes in this region of space work. A wormhole in the classical sense is some aberration in the fabric of space that allows for instantaneous movement between two points. You can think of it like a tunnel, where you can go one way or the other. But how then does the loop of wormholes that you discovered work? Four different wormholes creating a loop where travel is unidirectional." Ivan turns his chair and glances out at the courtyard. "We aren't yet sure how they could be functioning like this. Anything we come up with seems to violate some law of physics that we're certain is true."
	Ivan turns back to you. "As for those alien creatures, they're similarly complexing. Humanity has found life on other worlds before, but it has always conformed to our ideas of what life is given our experience on Earth centuries ago. But these creatures are something else entirely. There are no terrestrial planets in the system you found them in suitable for life, so they must have evolved on the gas giants in the system. How life can even begin in such an environment, let alone evolve to be able to travel the vacuum of space, is a mystery to us.
	"By the way, do you want to take the honors of naming these creatures? My team has some ideas, but we're not particularly convinced by any of them, so I thought I'd ask you."
	"How about 'void sprites'?"
	"How about 'Floaty McFloat Face'?"
	"Sorry, I don't have any ideas."
	"That's unfortunate," Ivan says. "I've been thinking of a name that references the void of space. I'll come up with something eventually."
	"In a joking mood, I see. We're not naming them 'Floaty McFloat Face,'" Ivan says with a blank expression. "I've been thinking of something in relation to the void of space. I'll come up with something eventually."
	"Void sprites," Ivan says slowly, as if letting the name sit on his tongue. "Void sprites... I like it."
	"Do you think I could get a copy of your research?" you ask.
	"A copy?" Ivan looks off into space for a moment. "Well, I suppose since you helped me so much, I could make an exception for you. I typically don't share findings with those not on my research team until they're finalized. I've been burned one too many times because of that."
	Ivan leans over to his desk. "This will be for your eyes only."
	"Again?" Ivan asks. He leans over to his desk. "I like that you're so interested in my research. I suppose it only makes sense with you helping me, but typically merchant captains aren't this interested in following up on odd jobs they do."
	He presses a button on the desk. "Abigail, could you please make a copy of the encrypted folders 'TAB-RP,' 'WLT-RP', and 'GGA-RP' on the Institute network under my name and bring them to my office in a data chip? Thank you."
ivan's suspicion
	"I was wondering what your research on those Remnant ship scans has brought up."
	"Could I get a copy of your research on those Remnant ship scans?"
	"The ship scans look like nothing we've ever seen before. The ships seem to have a sort of... organic property to them. Here, let me show you." Ivan pulls up a schematic on his computer of the Remnant ships that you scanned. You're somewhat surprised that he could pull so much information from an outfit scan. "The ships look relatively normal for the most part, but their hulls have an almost organic structure to them." He zooms in on a section of the schematic that highlights the hull structure. "Now, when it comes to ships designed by, say, Betelgeuse, or even the Navy, the hull supports are arranged in triangular or square sections. But these ships have a pseudo-hexagonal design to them, completely non-uniform. It almost looks like the cell structure of some plants.
	"Aside from the strange hull structure, they also seem to have a considerable amount of equipment integrated directly into the ships themselves. Built-in scanners and ramscoops, for example. Stuff that didn't come up on the surface of the outfit scan but that we can tell is there. The smaller of the two ships you scanned also has some sort of built-in device that we can't make any sense of. It doesn't look like any sort of device that we've seen before, but it takes up a considerable portion of the ship's structure, so it must have some purpose. We'd need to get a closer look to figure out what it is."
	"I was wondering what your research on Remnant technology has brought up."
	"Could I get a copy of your research on Remnant technology?"
	Ivan pulls out a schematic showing the engines you brought. "The engines you brought us are very interesting. We already mentioned to you how they're rather powerful for their size, more so than even atomic engines of a similar size, while not producing very much heat at all. Their major downside though seems to be the immense amount of energy they draw. The energy drain is not surprising given that they seem to be improved ion engines, but the fact that ion engines could ever become more powerful for their size than atomic engines is something spectacular. The thrusters also seem to have the ability to provide reverse thrust, making any ship with them rather maneuverable."
	He pulls out a schematic showing the generator. "The generator on the other hand wasn't all too interesting. Little more than an improved generator of the type you might find down in the Rim. Somewhat interesting that it doesn't produce much energy when compared to something like a fusion reactor given the energy requirement of their engines, but I suppose this people are concerned more with keeping their ships running cool then having excess energy. The one interesting characteristic we discovered though is that the generator seemed to handle the effects of ionization, like something the Hai Ion Cannons apply, much better than normal. It seemed to be an intentional result of how the generator was designed."
	He then pulls out a schematic showing the weapon. "And finally, the weapon you brought us. The Inhibitor Cannon is quite the technical marvel, having properties we've never seen before. Imagine a Particle Cannon, but half the size and with more range. Two Inhibitor Cannons would take up about the same amount of space as a single Particle Cannon, yet the Inhibitor Cannons would deal more damage. On top of that, the projectiles of the Inhibitor Cannons have the strange ability to slow down any ship they hit. Ships that we tested them on were unable to turn and accelerate at their normal rates."
	He presses a button on the desk. "Abigail, could you please make a copy of the encrypted folders 'TAB-RP' and 'RTS-RP' on the Institute network under my name and bring them to my office in a data chip? Thank you."
	He hesitates for a moment before pressing a button on the desk. "Abigail, could you please make a copy of the encrypted folders 'TAB-RP' and 'RTS-RP' on the Institute network under my name and bring them to my office in a data chip? Thank you.
	"So, not handing this off to anyone, are we?" he asks you.
	"Of course not."
	"No. Why do you ask?"
	"Just curious," he responds.
	"Good," he responds.
	He hesitates for a moment, looks up at you, then presses a button on the desk while still looking into your eyes. "Abigail, could you please make a copy of the encrypted folders... 'TAI-RP' on the Institute network under my name and bring them to my office in a data chip? Thank you."
	"So, you said you knew of the Remnant before working with me, right?" he asks you.
	"Yeah. Why do you ask?"
	"Not that I recall."
	"Just curious. Do you care to tell me what your relationship with them is like?"
	"Well I seem to recall that being what you told me. Do you care to tell me what your relationship with them is like?"
	"I just do odd jobs for them. Nothing official."
	"I'd rather not disclose that."
	"Interesting," he says.
	He is about to press a button on his desk, then pulls away from it and turns his chair toward the courtyard. "Never mind. I can't give you a copy. That research is classified."
	"Okay. I'll just head out then."
	"But I helped you with it. I really can't see it?"
	"No, you can't see it. Is there a problem with that?"
	"Yes. I need that research."
	"No, there's no problem. I'll just see myself out."
	He turns his chair back to you and stands up. "News flash, pal. I'm on to you. You asked for the research I had back before we had entered the wormhole in Terminus, and then you later told me that you'd already been through there and met these Remnant. Then when I asked you to help me learn more about them, you said no. I think you're covering for them in some way and giving them information on what I know. Why you're doing that, I don't know, but that's what my gut says, and I've learned to trust my gut on feelings like these. Now get out of my office.
	"You've got me. I'll leave."
	"You have it all wrong, Ivan."
	"I said get out of my office. Or do I need to call security?" Ivan hovers his finger over the button on the desk.
	"Okay, okay. I'll leave."
	"I think you do need to call security. I'm not leaving without that research."
	Ivan presses down on the button. "Security. I have a guest in my office who is no longer welcome."
	Not even thirty seconds later, a group of security guards enter the office. "<first> <last>, you're going to need to come with us," one of them says.
	"Well I think so," the security guard quips back, pulling a taser from his holster. The other security guards equip various equipment of their own, some of it looking lethal. "I'm going to give you one more chance to leave."
	"Well you're going to need to make me leave."
	Before you can even finish your sentence, you can already feel your muscles tensing up from the taser. You collapse, hitting your head on Ivan's desk as you go down. Before you lose consciousness from the impact, you hear Ivan yell, "Come on! Now I'm going to need to get a new desk."
	You eventually wake up in a cell with handcuffs on. You look around and see a security guard looking at you from outside of the cell. "Ah, you're finally awake." The guard opens the cell. "Doctor Haataja says he isn't going to be pressing charges. Right this way, please."
	The guard escorts you out of the cell, which was inside the security office of the Institute near the lobby. You get some puzzled looks from those in the lobby as you're escorted by the security guard in cuffs. After bringing you outside, the guard unlocks the cuffs. "Don't cause any more trouble, now," he says.
	The security guards escort you out of Ivan's office, and then out of the building. Looks like the Remnant won't be getting what they were hoping for.
	You back out of Ivan's office with him looking at you the entire time. Looks like the Remnant won't be getting what they were hoping for.
	Ivan smiles, but it looks forced. "Come back any time you want. You're free to roam the Institute whenever you desire. Most of the building is closed to the public, but I can always mark you as my guest whenever you're interested in looking around."
	Ivan laughs as he reclines his chair. "Screw that. You should see what I've been able to recover from those sensor cubes you placed.
	"I was wondering what came of those sensor cubes I placed."
	"Could I get a copy of what you've found from those sensor cubes?"
	Ivan laughs as he reclines his chair. "Oh, it's absolutely fascinating what I've been able to find.
	"With a cube in each of the Remnant systems, I was able to track all their fleet movements, and I've discovered some interesting things. For one, ships either make trips between the three systems, or they leave the cluster entirely for significant amounts of time, often at least a month at a time. There weren't very many ships or fleets that took short trips out of the cluster, say only one or two weeks in length. Seems like they're sending people on rather lengthy missions.
	"Aside from fleet movements, the number of ships was of note. The cubes track the number of unique ships seen, and they rarely tracked the same ship more than a handful of times. The Remnant seem to have an incredible number of ships, more than perhaps Deep Security and the Navy combined. Certainly impressive for a group consisting of only three star systems. The cubes are also able to make low quality scans of any ships in the system. While those individual scans are less than what an outfit scan provides, given enough scans you're able to get a clearer picture. These ship scan results were... interesting, though. There seemed to be very few ships like the ones you scanned. Perhaps those were their most advanced ships, but the rest of what I was able to see didn't seem more powerful than your average merchant ship."
	"I actually lost connection to the cubes a few weeks ago now, but I'd gathered enough information already."
	"A copy? Of course! Of course! You're the reason I have any of this information in the first place, so you have every right to it." Ivan presses a button on his desk. "Abigail, could you please make a copy of everything on the Institute network under my name and bring them to my office in a data chip? Thank you."
	Only a few minutes later there is a knock at the door. Ivan retrieves the data chip from the person who brought it, then plugs it into a computer on his desk. "Let me reencrypt these then leave the new key in the chip for you. Leaving the key right next to the lock isn't exactly the most secure thing to do, but I take it you'll be smart enough to remedy that whenever you use this. Aaaand... done." He pulls the chip from his computer and hands it to you.
	"Anything else?" he asks.
	"Thank you," Ivan says. "Come back any time you want. You're free to roam the Institute whenever you desire. Most of the building is closed to the public, but I can always mark you as my guest whenever you're interested in looking around."
	When you return to <origin>, you approach the information desk that Torza told you to go to. You tell the person at the desk that you're here to meet Torza. They have you wait on a bench nearby, and Torza arrives some time later. "Hello, Captain. I take it you have a copy of the findings."
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly, nodding and scratching his chin at various points. "Interesting research they have done," he says. "So they understand that it is a wormhole, but still have no means of passing through to the other side." Torza removes the data chip from the terminal and pockets it. "We will keep hold of this information. For the time being we have little to fear, but I ask that you inform us if they make any further progress. May the Embers burn bright for you."
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly, nodding and scratching his chin at various points. "They seem to have taken a liking to the void sprites," he says. "It is human nature to be curious, and they will be kept curious by the void sprites for a while. This buys us time." Torza removes the data chip from the terminal and pockets it. "We will keep hold of this information, and keep an eye on the Threshold in case they decide to venture further into the Ember Waste. Should that occur, we will call on you. May the Embers burn bright for you."
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly, nodding and scratching his chin at various points. "Impressive that you've brought us so much," he says. "This appears to be absolutely everything they know about us. While not ideal, at the very least we now know what they know and can use that to our advantage." Torza removes the data chip from the terminal and pockets it. He then pulls out what you recognize as the sensor cubes you placed on the Remnant worlds and puts them on the table. "We disabled these some time ago, but not before feeding them some junk data. And judging by this information, it worked. We will keep hold of this information, and keep an eye on the Threshold in case they decide to venture into the Ember Waste. Should that occur, we will call on you. May the Embers burn bright for you."
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly, nodding and scratching his chin at various points. "So, they know of some, but not all, of our technological capabilities," he says. "We can use this fog of war to our advantage, should we need to." Torza removes the data chip from the terminal and pockets it. "We will keep hold of this information, and keep an eye on the Threshold in case they decide to venture further into the Ember Waste. Should that occur, we will call on you. May the Embers burn bright for you."
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly with a puzzled look on his face. "There is nothing here like what you mentioned that the Deep knows. Are you sure you received the correct information?"
	You hand Torza the data chip that Ivan gave you. Torza takes it and plugs it into a terminal behind the desk. He appears to read through the research rather quickly with a puzzled look on his face. "This is the same information as what you brought us last time. Are you sure you received the correct information?"
	Torza turns the terminal to face you. You read through it and see that all the data is on the wormhole in Terminus, but it says that they are still looking for a way to pass through it. "This isn't what I asked for," you say. "He must have purposefully given me the wrong information."
	"Then he understands why you asked for it," he responds as he turns the terminal back and pockets the data chip.
	"No," you respond. "The lead scientist guessed correctly that I was asking for his research to give to you."
	Torza scratches his chin. "This is... disappointing. You've helped to place us in a scenario where a potential adversary knows much about us, but we know little about them." Torza stares at you, but doesn't appear to be angry. "Perhaps espionage is in order. But given your connections to the Deep, we will pursue such actions on our own. Should something arise in the future where we need you, we'll contact you. Until then, do not compromise our position any further. We will not take it so lightly a second time."
Remnant Human Tech Retrieval
The Remnant are interested in learning what advances humanity has made over the past centuries. Bring them samples of advanced technology, such as newly developed ramscoops, weapons, or shields.
As you enter the spaceport, you notice someone across the plaza appears to have been waiting for you. A tall, solidly built woman in short-sleeved coveralls stands up from where she was sitting near the information desk. With a few quick gestures at the person behind the counter, she heads towards you with a confident stride. As she approaches, you note that the crowds of people moving around the plaza seem to be staying out of her way as if she were someone important. In contrast, she reminds you of the mechanics who maintained the textile factories back on New Boston. In particular, the tools at her belt and the wear marks on her clothing suggest someone who is more comfortable inside a ship access duct than behind a desk.
	Before you can decide if you want to avoid this person or not, she is standing in front of you, clearing her throat. "You are captain <first> <last> of the <ship>?" She asks in a lyrical chant.
	"That's me."
	"I don't know who that is."
	She looks at you with an inscrutable expression for a moment. "Trying to be inconspicuous is admirable. Being oblivious to the fact that you stand out like a star in empty space is not."
	"I have an opportunity for you, if you are interested in being helpful to the Remnant." When you express your interest she leads you over to a balcony overlooking the primary shipyards. As she leans on the railing a cold breeze makes you shiver, but she seems oblivious to it. "I am known as Taely. As a prefect among the Remnant, I am responsible for this." She gestures at the shipyards, where you can see a myriad of the Remnant's alien-looking ships in various stages of construction or repair. "The ships we have serve us well, but they are old designs. Only the Ibis is comparatively new. We need new ideas, new inspiration." She pauses, focusing briefly on a small bay where several people appear to be pulling what looks like a supercapacitor out of a Puffin.
	"So, what are you asking?"
	"What are they doing?"
	"Oh, those are apprentices," she trills with a touch of amusement. "They need to learn how to handle unusual tech. One of the first steps is to deal with old tech. Like salvaging an obsolete supercapacitor out of that Puffin so it can be reprocessed into something useful, and replacing it with newer integrated energy storage." She glances at you in amusement. "You've flown the Puffin, you know how old that ship is: primitive energy systems, antique 'hard-shell' shields that have to be manually raised and lowered..." She trails off into momentary silence. "Be glad that you got one that had already been refurbished prior to your visit to Nenia. At least it had modern engines and an updated sensor array."
	"To the point," her tone shifts to a more martial cadence. "We want to know how humanity has advanced in the past five and a half centuries. If you found us, I am sure it is only a matter of time until the Alphas, their servants, or others intent on galactic domination discover us. We need to know what sort of weapons they will be wielding, how their ships will be protected, and how fast they can travel in deep space."
	"Okay, I will see what I can find."
	"Could you elaborate on 'how fast they can travel in deep space'?"
	"No, I don't want to get involved in this."
	She considers her thoughts briefly, then chants, "How fast a ship can move through an area of deep space basically depends on how fast they can collect fuel. Ramscoops were common at the time of the exodus, and if humanity has developed better ramscoops or other means of generating fuel, these would significantly improve their speed at exploring or crossing large volumes of space."
	Taely nods "I will look forward to seeing what you find. In the meantime, I should get back to work." With that, she swings over the railing and climbs quickly down the wall in the direction of the shipyard, seemingly unconcerned about the height.
	Taely looks at you with a blank expression, then chants in a monotone voice "If that is your choice, you are unlikely to find much of interest to do among us." With that, she vaults over the edge of the railing and drops from view. As you quickly peer over the railing, you discover that she had must have caught a handhold somehow, as she is rapidly moving down the wall in a controlled fashion with ease of a spider.
Retrieve Heavy Lasers
A Remnant engineer has asked you for a delivery of two Heavy Lasers to <planet> for them to study.
You remember that Taely was interested in seeing examples of technology from human space. Would you like to show her your Heavy Laser?
	After asking a few people, you finally get directed to a bay in the shipyard where you find Taely just finishing the installation of a Thrasher Cannon in a Starling. "Greetings, <first>. I will be down in a minute." She does a few more things inside a panel, reseals the hatch, and slides down a fin to land next to you. "So, do you have something for me?"
	You recall that Taely is responsible for the shipyards, so you head straight there and ask the nearest mechanic. They direct you to a large hangar tucked into a cliff face, where you find her working at a terminal filled with schematics. Behind her, the room fades quickly into darkness where you can faintly make out what appears to be a large tank and a lot of whirring machinery. As you approach she looks up from her work and turns to face you. "Ah, you have returned. Do you have something new for me?"
	You lead her back to your ship, where you show her the Heavy Laser. "A laser cannon?" she asks. "Our records indicate that humanity had primitive laser technology at the time of the Exodus, but nothing that would be considered useful as weapons." She pauses to look down at her scanner. "And yet my scans indicate that they are capable of significant power output." She pauses for a moment before continuing, "These could be quite useful to examine more thoroughly. Please deliver two of these Heavy Lasers to a research team on <planet>."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two Heavy Lasers that Taely requested. Go buy two Heavy Lasers before returning.
As you land on a pad adjacent to the research center, a group of researchers mount some kind of weapon on a platform aimed down a firing range. The researchers retreat behind a thick barrier and press a button to activate the weapon. A flash of light erupts from the muzzle as the target downrange is cut in half. The barrel of the weapon raises into the air, and the researchers rush out onto the range with tools and devices to inspect the damage.
	Noticing your arrival, one of the researchers veers off and heads towards you. "So, you are the one with the samples of humanity's laser weapons?" chants the researcher. "Always interesting to see new things." He turns and waves at a Remnant standing near the edge of the landing pad with a camel hitched to a wagon.
	The researchers quickly unload the Heavy Lasers from your ship, and hand you a credstick with <payment>. "Thank you for bringing us something new to examine. We appreciate the breath of fresh air." With that, they quickly head off into a nearby lab, escorting their cargo of weaponry on the oddly archaic transportation.
Retrieve Plasma Cannons
A Remnant engineer has offered you a reward in exchange for delivering two Plasma Cannons to a team on <planet>.
You recall that Taely was interested in examining examples of technology from ancestral space. Would you like to show her the Plasma Cannons you retrieved?
	Aware that Taely's main area of responsibility is in the shipyards, you head straight there and have almost arrived when you are approached by another Remnant who introduces herself as one of Taely's aides. "Greetings, Captain" she trills. "Our scans picked up indications of uncatalogued human weaponry. Were you bringing it to show us?"
	You lead her back to your ship, where you show her the Plasma Cannon. "I have never seen weapons designed to handle such a high heat output! Is this some kind of plasma based weapon?" she asks, gesturing at a cannon. You nod, and she continues, "Intriguing. We have noticed that the Korath ships seem to run particularly hot, and have speculated that overheating them might be an effective means of disabling them. I would enjoy researching these a bit more. If you could deliver two to <planet> for us you would be well compensated."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two Plasma Cannons that Taely requested. Go buy two Plasma Cannons before returning.
As the <ship> settles onto the pad closest to the research facility, you can see a weapons specialist checking over a large cannon on a platform beneath a nearby Albatross. When he sees you starting to unload the two Plasma Cannons, he snaps the casing closed and gestures to someone out of sight. Within moments both him and an empty flatbed are there to pick up the weapons.
	"Thank you for your help," he says. "Our Inhibitors provide us with something of a mobility advantage against the Korath, but they aren't particularly effective at disabling them. These Plasma Cannons will open new avenues of research for us." He pauses, then continues. "I also included a bonus for you. It is a 'finder's fee,' as we always appreciate new tech."
	The weapons technician finishes strapping down the Plasma Cannons and makes a gesture towards you, then heads off toward the lab.
	The weapons technician finishes strapping down the Plasma Cannons and makes a gesture that you recognize as "farewell," then heads off toward the lab.
	As you watch the Remnant heading off with their new weapons to study, you cannot help but wonder what will be the result of it.
Retrieve Catalytic Ramscoops
A Remnant engineer has offered you <payment> for delivering two Catalytic Ramscoops to a lab on <planet>.
You recall that Taely was interested in seeing examples of new human technology, and the Catalytic Ramscoop definitely fits the criteria. Would you like to show her?
	After asking a few people, you finally get directed to a bay in the shipyard where you find Taely calibrating an Inhibitor Cannon on an Albatross. "Greetings, <first>. I am just finishing these calibrations." She does a few more things inside the casing, reseals the hatch, and drops to the ground on a tether. "So, did you recover something?"
	Remembering that she spends most of her time in the shipyard, you head straight there and almost immediately are intercepted by another Remnant who introduces herself as one of Taely's assistants. "Good day, Captain" she chants. "Our scans picked up a new form of ramscoop onboard your ship. Have you brought it for us to look at?"
	You lead her back to your ship, where you show her the Catalytic Ramscoop. "Interesting. This is a new design?" She asks, gesturing at the ramscoop. You nod, and she continues, "Even if it does not perform well, new perspectives on the problem could be valuable. There is a research team on <planet> that is currently working on new ramscoop designs. If you could deliver two Catalytic Ramscoops to them we could offer you <payment>."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two Catalytic Ramscoops that Taely requested. Go buy two Catalytic Ramscoops before returning.
As the <ship> settles onto the pad closest to the research laboratory, you can see several people exiting an adjacent hangar with a trailer pulled by a camel. They quickly approach your landing pad and wait for you to complete your shutdown routines before boarding and starting to unload the ramscoops. Once they are done one of them comes up to you and hands you your payment of <payment>. "Thank you for the delivery, Captain. We are looking forward to seeing what they have done differently."
Retrieve Electron Beams for the Remnant
A Remnant engineer has offered you a reward for delivering two electron beams to a testing range on <planet>.
You recall that Taely was interested in seeing examples of new human technology, and the electron beam certainly fits the criteria. Would you like to show her?
	After asking a few people, you finally get directed to a bay in the shipyard where you find Taely closing up the panel on a Thrasher Turret. "Greetings, <first>. You have good timing: I was just finishing." She reseals the hatch, and drops to the ground on a tether. "So, did you recover something?"
	Given what you know about Taely, you decide to skip the spaceport proper and head for the shipyard. After a frustrating half hour spent wandering around trying to find her, you finally encounter a helpful weapons tech who says they can check the weapon on Taely's behalf.
	You accompany her back to your ship, where she examines the electron beam. "This could be useful. Focusing energy into continuous beams has been a popular idea for centuries. It is very useful to know that they have finally managed to make it into an effective weapon. If you could deliver two electron beams to one of our testing ranges on <planet> you would be well compensated."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two electron beams that Taely requested. Go buy two electron beams before returning.
On <planet> you follow the landing instructions to arrive at a pad set next to a small complex of testing ranges and workshops. A group of technicians is just finishing the disassembly of a weapon from the test stand when you settle onto the stand, and a few minutes later they arrive to unload the electron beams from your ship. They move eagerly to secure the new weapons to their flatbed and quickly hand you your payment of <payment> before vanishing into the lab.
Retrieve D94-YV Shield Generators
A Remnant engineer has offered you <payment> for delivering two D94-YV Shield Generators to a research facility on <planet>.
You know that Taely was interested in seeing examples of recently developed human technology, and the D94-YV Shield Generator probably fits the criteria. Would you like to show her?
	After asking a few people, you finally get directed to a bay in the shipyard where you find Taely applying some kind of material over a hole in a hull. "Greetings, <first>. What brings you here today?" She reseals the hatch, and drops to the ground on a tether. "Did you bring us something?"
	You decide that you are more likely to find her in the shipyard, so you skip the starport and head out among the ships. As you search through the yard you are soon approached by another engineer. "Well met, Captain. Taely said you may be bringing back samples of new technology from ancestral space. Do you have something to show us?
	You nod in the affirmative and lead her back to your ship, where she examines the D94-YV Shield Generator. "It certainly looks impressive," she chants as she paces around the massive piece of equipment. "It will be valuable to see what our enemies might be shielded with, and maybe something we can learn from it too." She comes to a stop in front of you. "If you could deliver two of these to a lab on <planet> we could compensate you with <payment>."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two D94-YV Shield Generators that Taely requested. Go buy the two shield generators before returning.
On <planet> you follow the landing instructions to arrive at a pad set next to a large warehouse. As you complete your shutdown routine the doors slide open and a large crawler emerges, accompanied by several Remnant. They carefully unload the D94-YV Shield Generators and strap them down. As they start heading back to the warehouse one of them comes over to hand you <payment>. "Thank you for the delivery. Our team is eager to see what humanity has achieved in these past centuries."
Retrieve S-970 Regenerators
A Remnant engineer has offered you <payment> for delivering two S-970 Regenerators to an impact testing facility on <planet>.
You recall that Taely was interested in seeing instances of new human technology, and the S-970 Regenerator is definitely a recent development. Would you like to show her?
	After asking a few people, you finally get directed to a bay in the shipyard where you find Taely adjusting something on the hull that you can't quite see. "Greetings, <first>. What brings you here today?" She taps something, then hangs her tools on her belt and drops to the ground on a tether. "Did you bring us something?"
	Taely seems like the sort of person who spends most of their time working directly on ships, so finding people repairing ships seems the most likely place to find her. As you enter the maintenance section, you spot an engineer waiting for you. She quickly introduces herself as an engineer who works with Taely. "She was not able to be here, so she sent me to see what you have brought" chants the engineer.
	You nod in the agreement and lead her back to your ship, where she does a cursory scan of the S-970 Regenerator. "Hmm," she murmurs as she peers at the readings on her instrument as she waves it up and down the regenerator. "This looks like they may have found a few techniques that would be beneficial for us to study. If you could deliver two of these to a lab on <planet> we could compensate you with <payment>."
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't have the two S-970 Regenerator that Taely requested. Go buy the two shield regenerators before returning.
On <planet> you follow the landing instructions to arrive at a pad set next to a substantial facility with a large equipment bay. As you complete your shutdown routine the doors to the bay slide open and a crawler emerges, accompanied by several Remnant. They carefully unload the S-970 Regenerators and strap them down. As they start heading back into the bay, one of them comes over to hand you <payment>. "Thank you for the new outfits to study. Our team is quite interested to see what humanity has achieved since our exodus."
As an engineering prefect, Taely is the foremost authority among the Remnant on salvaged technology and a senior leader in their reverse engineering program.
As a military prefect, Chilia is responsible for the defense of Remnant space. He can usually be found on the front lines of combat unless required to work on tactics for the Remnant as a whole.
Despite being quite young, Chilia is highly respected among Remnant society.
Prefect Chilia is an unusual person compared to most military leaders: He is inclined to do things himself and rarely stands on protocol.
Return the Samples
A researcher on <planet> has asked you to return void sprite eggs to Nasqueron that the Remnant stole many years ago.
As you are walking through the spaceport, the researcher you previously assisted with the studies on the void sprites approaches you in a hustle. "We have made some new discoveries!" he exclaims in a trill. "Some of the samples that we took all those years ago are actually eggs of some kind. So the Archon must view our previous research as being disruptive to the void sprites' lifecycles.
	"We have been storing these eggs in a cryogenic stasis tank, so they should still be viable and intact. Well, most of them, anyway." His notes trail off on a mournful tone.
	"Could you return some of them to Nasqueron? According to our logs, they were found floating in the lower levels of the atmosphere, where their natural buoyancy should keep them afloat."
	"Sure, I would be glad to return them."
	"Sorry, I'm really not interested in dodging the Archon again."
	"Thank you. Since we are continuing to work together, I would like to introduce myself again." He takes a breath, thinks for a second, and speaks a short verse about plumage with a complex chord that sounds at once grandiose and self-deprecating. The best you can make out is that his name is "Plume."
	"Just remember: you will need to use a Puffin to make this delivery. If you don't still have one, there are a few in storage in Viminal." He taps on his commlink, and an assistant emerges from a nearby building with a flatbed truck. Onboard is a large collection of cocoon-like pods cradling large eggs, as well as a big spacesuit that looks more reminiscent of an ancient deep-sea diving suit than anything carried on a modern ship. "Now, remember, you need to remove the eggs from the cocoons and release them gently. Please make sure they don't hit anything on the way out."
A Remnant researcher specializing in xenobiology, Plume is at the forefront of recent efforts to restart research on the void sprites and a leading expert in non-carbon based lifeforms.
Once again you have successfully dodged the Archon to land on Nasqueron. Somehow, knowing it was going to be there was both better and worse than the surprise of the first time.
	As the <ship> sinks through the cloud layers, you gently activate the repulsors to slow your descent to avoid startling the void sprites. A few nearby sprites descend with you, seeming to match your velocity. You slow down as you reach the altitude listed in the log of where the eggs are to be released.
	Setting the ship on autopilot, you walk to the back and struggle into the pressure suit. Readying the eggs in the cargo hold, you equalize pressure in the main cargo hold to the swirling clouds outside, and open the bay doors. As predicted, at this pressure level, the eggs are almost weightless, and are fairly easy to carry to the door of the ship and release.
	By the time you finish releasing the eggs back into the clouds, several void sprites have converged on your ship and appear to be herding the eggs away from you with gentle buffets of their wings. You take a moment to appreciate the alien beauty of these creatures before closing the hatch and purging the ship with fresh air.
Back on the ground, you report on how the release went. The researcher is pleased to hear that the void sprites responded to their presence. "We will give them a few weeks, then try sending another ship to monitor them. Hopefully the Archon will be pacified by this. Meet me in the alien environments lab just off the spaceport if you are interested in pursuing this."
Plume has asked you to return more stolen eggs, this time to Slylandro. Then return to <planet> with footage of the void sprites.
Following Plume's directions, you find a lab tucked behind the main area of the spaceport, where a short walkway leads into an underground structure. Stepping inside the door you note a rack of camouflage netting positioned easily at hand. Given what you have learned of their history, it is probably a last-ditch preparation in case they need to hide the entrance from a raid.
	The lab itself is a microcosm of Remnant development. The structure appears to be some strange semi-organic material, and you can see an eclectic mix of familiar and unfamiliar shapes cluttering the tables. If you had to guess, you would say that this lab was the result of several different families of technology, only one of which was human.
	Plume and several other Remnant are at the back of the room inspecting a bunch of cocoon-like containers, similar to the ones that carried the last batch of eggs back to Nasqueron. After checking a screen he looks up and seems momentarily startled to see you.
	"Ah, <first>! You are just in time," Plume chants quickly, his hands unconsciously dancing in a quick series of gestures. "These eggs are ready to be delivered, this time to Slylandro. Could you drop them off like you did before?"
	"Yes, I would be happy to bring them home."
	"Sorry, I'm really not interested in risking the Archon a third time."
	"Thank you. Like last time, we can't pay you for this. But we are still hopeful that the Archon might let us resume our studies." He follows you out to the <ship> and helps you load the cocoons holding the eggs. Just before parting ways he asks, "Oh, could you record the void sprites this time? We would like to see the behaviors you mentioned last time."
As you approach Slylandro you watch the Archon like a hawk, but this time it doesn't attempt to drive you off with tridents of white energy. Cautiously you make your way to Slylandro and begin your descent.
	As the <ship> sinks through the cloud layers, you notice the void sprites seem to be tailing you. A few drop past you with startling speed, only to reappear from below as you approach the designated altitude. At the last minute you remember Plume's request to record them, and hit the switch to activate the recorder for the exterior cameras.
	Setting the ship on autopilot, you head back and suit up in the bulky pressure suit once again. Readying the eggs in the cargo hold, you equalize pressure and open the bay doors. As before, the eggs are already floating as you open the cocoons and gently carry them to the door.
	Almost as soon as you release the first egg, a void sprite is there, brushing against the ship to scoop the egg away into the swirling mists. By the time you return with the next one, another sprite is already waiting at the door, undulating in the eerie light. By the time the last egg is released you can see dozens of the strange creatures swarming around the collection of eggs. It occurs to you that very few humans would ever have the chance to see anything like this.
	After taking a moment to enjoy the view, you shut the door as gently as you can, purge the ship with fresh air, and begin the journey back to Aventine.
Back on Aventine, you share the recording of the void sprite's behavior with Plume. "These Sprites demonstrate considerably more communication than we originally thought. And obviously they must have communicated what you did on Nasqueron. Interesting..." Plume's excited staccato exclamations trail off as he begins to make notes on a data pad he has on hand. "Thank you for your help, we will let you know what we find out."
As you disembark from <ship> you almost run into Plume as he strides across the landing area. "Captain <first>, I didn't see you there!" You glance back at the bulk of your ship that you just stepped out of and look at him curiously, wondering how he could have missed seeing a spaceship land in front of him. His chant takes on a slightly apologetic tone. "I've been lost in thought thinking about everything we have discovered lately, especially the most recent recordings you made. I still have a lot to analyze, though." He pauses, looking thoughtful. "That being said, I will probably have more work for you in a week or two."
	Plume asks a few more questions about what you have been doing, then politely excuses himself to continue his research. "Please let me know if you uncover anything else about Nenia!" he trills to you as he departs.
As you step out into the icy chill of Viminal, you get a message from Taely, the engineering prefect, asking if you could meet her in the cafeteria.
	(Accept her invitation.)
	Replying that you can, you make your way through the crowds and find an empty table. Moments later Taely appears and grabs two trays from the dispenser before heading towards you. She settles down in the opposite chair with a look of exhaustion.
	"It is good to see you again, <first>," she sings softly. When you sign a reply she sits up, smiles, and switches to sign. "My, you are a quick learner. This is much faster." Her quick gestures are hard to follow, but the language videos seem to have focused on a practical vocabulary that has most of the words she uses.
	"I have not fully..." (She makes a sign that you don't understand, but seems similar to the signs for "break" and "understand.") "... the technology you retrieved for us, but we are learning much from what we have already found. Could you help us catch up with what has happened in ancestral space since our Exodus?"
	"Yes. What can I do to help?"
	"Sorry, not interested."
	"Excellent! According to a friend of mine who is versed in history from the war, there were rumors that a grand library was being built in the Deep to house all of human knowledge. If it exists, that would likely be where to go."
	"Excellent! According to a friend of mine who is versed in history from the war, there were rumors that a grand library was being built in the Deep to house all of human knowledge. If it exists..." She stops when she notices you nodding with a knowing expression. "You have already been there? Well, you certainly get around, Captain <last>. I suppose that makes things rather straight forward."
	"I actually already have a copy of the library's data in my ship," you respond.
	"Oh, that's even better," Taely trills. "Go ahead and get it."
	You return to your ship to get the data chip, but when you glance out the cockpit you notice that the spaceport is more animated than usual. Remnant look to be running to their ships as fast as they can when you notice that Taely is halfway up the side of your ship securing a refueling hose and charging cable. As you reach for the commlink she scrambles up to the bridge windows and quickly rattles off a series of signs at you. All you can make out is "Keep it hot, incoming!" Before you can frame a reply she has raced across your wing and leapt to the Albatross parked next to you.
Having acquired a copy of the archive, you gently set your ship down on Viminal hoping that this information is helpful. The port seems unusually busy, but the comm channels are quiet beyond the bare minimum to keep traffic organized.
	Before you have even taken the time to shut down the engines Taely is halfway up the side of your ship securing a refueling hose and charging cable. As you reach for the commlink she scrambles up to the bridge windows and quickly rattles off a series of signs at you. All you can make out is "Keep it hot, incoming!" Before you can frame a reply she has raced across your wing and leapt to the Albatross parked next to you.
	Looking around more carefully, you note that every ship in the port is idling with fuel lines still connected. If this were some Republic port the safety inspectors would be having a nightmare. One Starling is getting holes in its wings patched even as the crew appear to be running prep-for-flight checklists. It also looks like every ship has a guard. Something tells you that right now would be a bad time to take a walk around town.
	After some tense minutes of waiting, the planetary defense sirens start and the idling ships begin to ascend one by one. You quickly figure out where you are in the launch sequence and follow the stream of craft heading for orbit.
Remnant History Updates
The Remnant are interested in learning about what has happened in human space since they left. Find a copy of human history on <destination>.
Return the copy of human history to <destination>.
After having traveled clear across the galaxy, you finally arrive at the archives of human history. Upon asking a librarian where you could get a copy of the station's archives, you're surprised to have them point you to a gift shop. There you find a copy of the archives on a data card. ("The perfect gift for the budding historian in your family! Hold all of human history in the palm of your hand. On sale now for only 39.99!") Given that a cheap data card costs a fraction of a credit, it's a bit of a rip-off, but you gladly buy one to take back to Taely.
As some ships maintain orbital sentry positions, most ships return to their berths. Mechanics are soon swarming over the ships, and what you suppose are ambulances are waiting at the ramps to collect the injured. Farther back, flatbed tractor units wait to pick up any salvage that has been collected.
	Eventually a tired but pleased-looking prefect stops by your ship. He starts chanting, "Do you understand our language, or do I need to sing?" He looks relieved when you reply that you can understand most of what is said so long as he signs slowly. "Thank you for your assistance during the raid. The sensors you placed in Parca picked up the fleet coming in and gave us sufficient warning to get everyone ready."
	He is silent for a moment, with the air of someone who is enjoying not having to run for the first time in a while. "Oh, Taely said that you might have some historical records for us?" You hand over the copy of the archive in response, telling him that it is probably the best available. He copies the archive onto a data pad, then returns it to you alongside a credit chip with <payment> on it. "Thank you, I will make sure this gets where it needs to go. In the meantime, we could use your help in the spaceport."
Transport injured Remnant
Some injured Remnant need to be transported away from the front lines to Aventine.
A prefect informs you that they need to evacuate some injured to a hospital on Aventine, but you will need 8 free bunks and 5 tons of cargo space in order to handle the injured.
After watching the mechanics start repairs on the <ship>, you make the short trek to the spaceport common area. People are still rushing around as ships continue to land. No wrecks so far, and judging by the scrolling arrivals displays there are still quite a few ships on approach. Looking around for someone to talk to, you spot the prefect who had just visited your ship. He notices you and comes over. "No ships lost yet," he signs harshly, "but there are a few ships that have not checked in."
	He shakes his head and continues, "We need to keep our medical facilities as free as possible. Could you take some of our injured to Aventine? They are stable and healthy enough for an unattended transport, and it would free up medics and space here."
	"I'd rather not."
	He looks relieved. "Thanks. I was going to have to divert one of our sentries to take them." He pauses and consults his commlink. "The medical team will have the injured settled onboard shortly, along with everything they need to ensure they arrive safely. They will probably have some fresh crew to send back with you."
The injured crew made for an eerily quiet jaunt from Viminal to Aventine. They didn't sing, and rarely signed. Some spent the trip mellowed out on powerful painkillers, while the few that left their rooms seem to be mostly intent on doing prescribed stretches and movements to help damaged muscles heal. Others that you check on appear to be meditating while an intravenous system feeds into their gloves. A few are interested in visiting with someone from outside the Ember Waste, but they lacked the energy to do so for long.
	On Aventine there are ambulances and medical staff waiting to transport the injured to longer-term medical facilities. As they depart, a fresh crew arrives to take their places.
When you return to Viminal, the Remnant crew members leave your ship and disperse across the tarmac to the ships they have been assigned to, each one of them signing their thanks as they leave. A few minutes after they leave your commlink beeps, notifying you that a message from the prefect has arrived:
	"Captain <last>! Thank you for your help in defending Viminal and transporting those wounded. I have transferred a small token of our gratitude to you. That being said, perhaps you would appreciate this a bit more: the other prefects and I have agreed to grant you access to a wider range of ships. Our capital class ships will now be available to you, including the Albatross and the Pelican. At the rate these raids are going, it is in everyone's best interests that you have access to a better warship. Please, meet us in the spaceport to further discuss the situation."
Track down the <npc>
Track down and disable a Korath ship that escaped the raid on Viminal so that the Remnant may salvage it for technology.
Walking into the cafeteria you immediately sense the buoyant mood. According to a report on the video screen, very few Remnant ships were actually lost. Furthermore, of the ships that were lost, their escape pods worked perfectly, ensuring none of the crew were killed. Groups of crew members are gathered around tables covered in food, intermingled with the ground teams that keep their ships operational. Based on the snippets you can catch, they seem to be trading stories of crack shots and clever improvisations.
	Taely sits over at a corner booth with the prefect who met you at the dock and a couple other mechanics, and she waves you over. "Captain <last>! So, how do you like fighting with our fleet?" asks one of the mechanics.
	"It seems odd to have a planetary defense fleet plundering."
	"It was a tough battle."
	"I suppose it would," chants one of them. "We need access to their tech, though. Otherwise we'll fall behind." Judging by the finality of his statement, this is held to be common knowledge among the Remnant.
	While you're conversing with the group, the prefect suddenly glances down at his commlink, reads a message, then looks up at you. "It appears that a Korath ship survived the raid and has destroyed a few ships without taking cargo. Could you deal with it?"
	"Thank you," he signs. "It is acting oddly, jumping around destroying ships instead of looting and running. If it simply looted and left we would be pleased, but now it is learning about us instead, so it has reached the end of its usefulness. Please disable it so that we can salvage parts from it." He pauses, then continues, "I doubt we'll be able to salvage the ship itself - they pack those things with soldiers - and we do not want it to be captured, even if that is possible for you. The ship and crew should remain intact, and we will salvage what we can after you have it disabled. If you salvage anything we will happily compensate you for it in the outfitter, but do not feel obliged to do so. Destroying the ship should be a last resort."
You have disabled the Korath ship that was left over from the raid on <planet>. You can now return there to collect your payment.
You are met by a prefect who looks upset. "The ship was supposed to be disabled so its contents could be salvaged!" he signs angrily. Nonetheless, he shoves a credit chip worth <payment> into your hand. "That's half what you would have earned if the ship had been disabled." He pauses and shakes his head. "I think Taely might have some more work for you in the spaceport, but in the meantime, why don't you go find some Korath to practice disabling? It is a valuable skill among the Remnant."
You are met by a prefect who thanks you for disabling it and hands you a credit chip for <payment>. "I think Taely might have some more work for you in the spaceport, but in the meantime, don't forget to drop off any salvaged outfits in the outfitters so the researchers can look at them."
Salvage Delivery
Deliver <cargo> to Caelian.
Taely would like you to deliver some valuable Korath equipment to Caelian, but you will need 20 tons of space to carry it.
As you stroll across the tarmac under the great dome you spot Taely heading your way with a flatbed tractor filled with components in tow.
	"<first>! I'm glad I ran into you. The last raid gave us some particularly good pieces of equipment to study. Could you take these to the weapons laboratory on Caelian?"
	"I could do that."
	"I'm not interested."
	Taely quickly helps load the cargo onboard your ship. It doesn't appear to be actual whole items anymore, but rather pieces thereof. "They will be expecting you, but you might have to pry them out of their lab to get some help unloading. They can be a bit single-minded when they have something interesting to work on."
On Caelian, you are able to find the appropriate research warehouse just off the main landing pad. After a few minutes, a lab technician disentangles herself from a project and brings a wagon and camel team out to the ship to unload the salvage. It strikes you as a bit incongruous that a lab technician is using a graviton repulsion lifter to load cargo from your ship into a wagon pulled by a camel. "If you can, I should have some things to send back to Taely if you could meet me in the cafeteria this afternoon."
Transport outfits to Taely
Deliver <cargo> to Viminal.
The technician you delivered Taely's salvaged parts to would like you to take some finished parts back to Taely, but you will need 20 tons of space to do so.
You spot the laboratory technician entering the cafeteria, and she approaches you.
	"Thank you for waiting. I have a shipment of parts ready for Taely, and with the recent increase in attacks she needs them sooner rather than later. Please take them to her."
	Outside you find a camel pulling a wagon filled with ship parts to be loaded on board the <ship>.
Taely meets you at the dock with a flatbed ready to offload the shipment. As you run through your shutdown routine you hit the switch for the cargo bay doors, and by the time you have gone down to the hold, Taely has half the shipment already unloaded.
	Her signs flick at you with a gentleness that you are slowly deciding equates to a cheerful tone. "Thank you for all the help you've provided in recovering this salvage," she says as she hands you <payment>. "I have discussed it with the other engineers, and we have decided to give you access to our salvage."
	She leads you over to the warehouse, scans her ID on the console, and taps a few commands. Then she scans your ID card. "There you go, I have updated your access codes," she signs cheerfully. She hands you your ID and pulls you to a door on the far side of the outfitting shop. Beyond the door is a vast room filled with outfits and weapons that clearly don't fit the same style as the other Remnant technology. You have seen most of the things here on scans and when salvaging equipment from other ships, but rarely up close.
	"This section of our warehouse is the salvage area. Everything in here, we have collected in sufficient quantities that it is available for general use." She nods at a rack of Korath Heat Shunts while she explains, then turns back to you.
	"Of course the really advanced and rare stuff is still going to the labs first, and will not be available until we have learned all we can from it." She looks around proudly. "We do not have the industrial capacity or the number of researchers to keep up with the Alphas, the Korath, and whoever else might be out there. But we are very good at figuring out what others have built and learning from it.
	"Any salvage or unrecognized technology gets scanned in our quarantine area for threats, then looked over to figure out if there is anything new in it. If there is, it is shipped to a lab for our researchers to dissect. Anything we have already figured out ends up in here, where a select few captains are welcome to use it as they see fit."
	"Threats?"
	"Yes, it is, isn't it? So many new things out there to discover and learn about.
	"Yes, sometimes salvage that is brought in is dangerous. A Systems Core comes with fleets of micro-bots, for instance. If they aren't de-activated properly, they keep trying to rebuild their surroundings in the form of the last ship they were configured to serve. And while it hasn't happened yet, we are worried that someday we might run into someone who builds traps into their equipment, or uses nanobots that have run amok. We have not seen any of that yet, but our science-fiction stories are filled with tales of nanotech apocalypses and things like that.
	"Well, I need to get back to work. That last battle put us behind schedule on our repairs. Have a good day!" With a final flourish that you think is the equivalent of an exclamation mark, Taely strides out of the outfitters, heading towards another landing bay.
Deliver Data to <planet>
Deliver data crystal to a Remnant named Torza on <destination>.
You were just in the process of disembarking from the <ship> when a young Remnant jogs up to you. "Good day, Captain <first>. Sorry to interrupt, but we have an urgent delivery that needs to go to Torza on <destination>. Could you deliver this please?"
	"Sorry, not right now."
	"A data archive with the latest briefings and analyses. Heavily shielded and encrypted, of course, so no need to worry about it showing up on a scan. It has to get there by <date>. So, could you do it?" They hold out a small case with a data crystal visible through the window.
	"Thank you." They hand you the case. "Take it to <destination> by <date>. Torza will meet you there."
You step out of the <ship> to see a non-descript Remnant standing attentively next to the landing pad. "Captain <first>! We have been waiting for you." They lead you into a nearby bunker. Inside, a single Remnant is standing over a hologram displaying fortifications and what appear to be troops and ships moving around.
	"Torza, Captain <first> is here." The Remnant's gestures convey a deep sense of respect.
	The Remnant steps forward and accepts the case from you. The case pops open, and he slots the crystal into a spot on the display. He nods as the display pops up several confirmations of data integrity. "Well, you have certainly made many ripples since you arrived in our little corner of the galaxy." He gestures and the large display zooms in on a spot to show you walking through a spaceport outfitter. The display shifts to show you helping wounded onto your ship. The scene shifts again to show you launching the small stealth surveillance satellite. Then the table shifts back to the display of troop movements.
	"You have not been with us too long, but you have shown yourself to be trustworthy and eager to help." He gestures at the display. "As you can see, your actions have not gone unobserved. We have decided to amend your IFF registration as a result." He points to a set of slots next to the table similar to the ones that are installed on your ship. "Please place both your licenses in those slots, and I will confirm your side of the change."
	(Place my licenses in the designated spots.)
	"You have been watching me?"
	"Yes. There is very little that goes on in our worlds that is not observed by someone, and sometimes these events garner more attention than others." He looks at you. "You are one such. As a stranger among us, you were subject to much attention, although you probably did not notice most of it. Some felt it was too risky to trust you as far as we did, but the consensus was that you are worth the trust. Now," he gestures towards the console again, "place your licenses there, please."
	Once you do as you are told, he inserts several unique objects, which share similarities with your licenses, into slots on his side of the table and taps several controls. "You are not yet one of us, but this brings you one step closer. Your IFF signature has been updated, and our ships' databases will be updated within a day." He removes the licenses and hands yours back to you with a relieved expression. "We are a curious people, and we fully understand the search for knowledge and to learn more about one's surroundings. But we also know how important it is to maintain our secrets.
	"Going forward, you are now authorized to scan Remnant ships, and we encourage you to do so, although you should wait a day or two for the update to propagate through our fleet." He looks amused by something, but his serious expression returns. "Scanning each other is, after all, a valuable form of security that gives us opportunities to spot infiltrators and unknown contaminants on returning ships. Scans are uploaded to our databases for signature matching via the Quantum Entangled Communicator built into the IFF mechanism onboard your ship, and we will return information such as alien outfit identification and tactical scan readouts whenever possible to help you."
	He gives a tired sigh. "While I would enjoy answering a few of your questions, I should get back to supervising the operation." He gestures at the display, which has resumed showing the tactical movements of troops. "Thanks again for all your help, <first>."
Visiting the Quarg
Take Remnant researchers to <destination> to see the Quarg.
As you relax in the cafeteria on <origin> you are approached by a young Remnant. Judging by the hand-held sensors and tools hanging off her belt, you suppose she is a researcher or an engineer.
	"Hello Captain <last>. My name is Dawn, and I have been spending the past few days skimming the archive you retrieved. I wanted to ask you a few questions. May I?"
	She slides into the chair opposite you without waiting for your reply, and pulls out a data pad. "Firstly, our histories mention how humanity met a race called the 'Quarg' and had some ongoing dialogs with them, but not much beyond that. Now here in this history that you brought us, it says that humanity has started exchanging technology with them! Is this true?" She looks at you intently. You sign negatively, and she dejectedly continues. "Could you explain about them, then?" You reply that the Quarg have allowed humanity to live near them, and that the Quarg are usually willing to answer questions, including scientific ones. You continue, elaborating that while the Quarg don't seem to mind having an innovative shipyard studying them as best it can, they don't actually share their technology with anyone.
	After several hours of telling her about meeting the Quarg and visiting their worlds, it finally occurs to you that it would be easy enough to take her to visit the Tarazed system.
	(Offer to take her there.)
	(Don't offer.)
	You offer to take her and a couple of her colleagues to see the Quarg. She eagerly accepts, although she expresses a preference for landing on the human world, so they can observe the Quarg ships from a distance, as they would rather not draw any attention to themselves. She runs out of the cafeteria after telling you they will meet you at your ship in half an hour.
You land on <planet>, but realize that you left Dawn and her colleagues on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Dawn is a young Remnant researcher with a strong interest in engineering. She has yet to pick a specialty, but appears to have a talent for exo-engineering.
Dawn and her colleagues are thrilled with the trip. While they had each served on Remnant ships exploring the Ember Waste or patrolling their territory, none had ever been more than a handful of jumps away from their own space. They explain that their ships were always cautious to stay far away from human space to avoid leading anyone back.
	It occurs to you that Dawn and her colleagues seem much less reserved than most Remnant. You aren't sure if it is because they are younger, less secretive, or if the Remnant have been holding back from you. It is also possible that you just have better opportunities to figure it out now that you can understand their signs.
	Upon arriving at Wayfarer they spend a considerable amount of time watching the few Quarg in evidence. However, it is easy to see that the real draw of their attention is the ships. You wave your ID across the scanner for the shipyard and take them inside to see what Tarazed Shipyards has on display.
	After a few minutes a sales agent meanders over to ask if there's anything he can do to help. You ask a few questions about the different ships for Dawn's benefit, listen to the sales agent repeat a few lines from the display, then politely tell him you'll just browse on your own.
	Almost before you are in the main hall a sales manager is at your side, inquiring as to how he can help. You can almost see the credit signs in his eyes and you suspect that scanning your license may have done a quick check of your net worth too.
	You ask a few leading questions about new designs and play the part of a captain with more money than brains, and the manager eagerly directs you to the large hangars near the end that house their largest and fanciest ships. After it becomes clear that he doesn't have any experience flying them you politely disentangle yourselves from him to look at the ships in peace.
	After an hour of browsing, the young Remnant agree to meet you back at the spaceport in an hour and take off to the outfitters.
Quarg Scanning
Perform an outfit scan on the Quarg ship <npc>, then land again on <destination>.
Dawn and her fellow researchers show up a few minutes after you do, excitedly talking about the various things they have seen. "<first>, there is a Quarg ship taking off shortly, and we were hoping you might be able to get scans of it while it is in flight. It would be really helpful for our understanding of how they work."
Dawn and her compatriots eagerly pore over the readouts as they come in, then ask if you could land again to compare their scans to ones taken on the ground.
You have landed on <planet>, but you have not yet scanned the <npc>'s. Depart and use an outfit scanner to scan the ship.
The Remnant researchers' attention to detail is impressive. They carefully quantify every aspect of the scans, including notes about the ship's behaviors. By the time you are on the ground again, they have amassed quite a collection of data crystals filled with analysis. You note that they are careful to ensure everything they collect is backed up in multiple places, including what appears to be a small lead lined box.
	Dawn does some follow-up scans of idle Quarg ships, and her fellow researchers take some time to make sure all their pictures are crisp and detailed. They let you know that they will meet you back in the spaceport bar once they are done.
Expanded Horizons Return
Return the Remnant researchers to <planet>.
This mission requires bunks for three passengers.
Back in the spaceport bar you wait around for a couple hours. Just when you were about to go find them, the trio walk in looking like they had spent all day on the move, but otherwise unreadable.
	"Okay, I think we are ready to go. Can you take us to <planet>?"
Once you are back in the privacy of the <ship>, the stony reserve fades to cheerfulness as the trio are a blur of motion, chattering back and forth with their signs. Apparently this will be one of the biggest boosts to their research since the first time they salvaged the gear off a Korath raider.
	They eventually slow down their signs a bit and explain that up until the time the Remnant departed from ancestral space, human scanners had been unable to penetrate the outer layers of Quarg ships. One of Dawn's fellow researchers continues with the explanation.
	"Our historical records just have a few pictures and videos of Quarg ships, along with a basic scan that doesn't provide more than the general outline of the ship. These scans," he says while tapping the databanks, "actually picked up detailed structural layouts and even identified a number of key components. It isn't nearly enough information to be able to duplicate them, but it is enough that we can start trying to figure out how they work."
	Upon arriving at <planet> they quickly thank you, hand you <payment>, and run back to their offices to finish prepping their material to publish and distribute.
You've landed on <planet>, but you don't have a broken jump drive to give to the Remnant. You may need to steal one from Palavrets or Rano'ereks found through Remnant jobs, or depart and wait for an escort carrying one to enter the system.
You have been asked to deliver a broken jump drive to the researchers on <planet>.
As the <ship> settles onto its designated landing pad, you see someone emerge from the nearby outfitter and quickly make their way to you. The man waits a safe distance before approaching once you cycle the hatch and disembark. "Greetings, Captain <last>," trills the Remnant, "we saw the news that the newcomer among us was tracking down an erratic Korath ship. When you came in to land, we saw on the scans that you salvaged its malfunctioning jump drive. Could we take it to study?"
	"That would be a good use for it."
You have a broken jump drive that the Remnant might be interested in. Do you want to seek out someone to give it to?
	(Maybe later.)
	You find a Remnant director and inform them about the broken jump drive that you have.
	"Excellent!" he glances at his data pad. "There are several teams working on aspects of the jump drive, and the team with the highest priority for this one is on <planet>. I will notify them to expect you."
	He considers this, and sings, "If you wish. Our offer stands, whenever you choose to return."
When you arrive on <planet> there is a team of engineers and mechanics waiting for you, along with a flatbed freight truck. Once you open the cargo doors they quickly free the broken jump drive from its moorings and load it delicately onto their truck. The lead engineer comes over to hand you <payment>. "Thank you for salvaging this. I suspect my compatriot who spoke to you never mentioned this, but we have a fund set aside for rewarding captains who bring in rare pieces of alien technology. If you find any more of these drives, there is sure to be a research team somewhere that is willing to reward you for it."
	"I will keep a lookout for more."
	"Aren't you going to replace it with a hyperdrive?"
	The engineer looks at you incredulously. "You mean you were actually trying to use this drive?" He shakes his head in disbelief. "You are lucky you managed to get this far, then. It is surprising that they exist at all, so it is too much to expect them to work too. If you need a replacement drive, there are plenty available in the outfitter.
	"Next time you find one of these drives, just check with a starport director. They will know where it will need to go. A word of warning though; I strongly recommend not trying to use these drives - they may disappear at the most inconvenient of times, and there will not always be an outfitter on hand." He turns and heads off with the rest of the team, turning briefly to give you friendly wave as they disembark.
The researchers on <planet> have requested your broken jump drive.
You've plundered another broken jump drive. Do you want to seek out a director to give it to?
	Information must flow quickly amongst the Remnant, because by the time you arrive at the director's desk she already has the information ready for you.
	"Greetings, newcomer," she chants. "Are you interested in turning in the broken jump drive you salvaged to our researchers?"
	"They will definitely appreciate new material to research. The team is located on <planet>. I will send a notification ahead so they will be expecting you."
As promised, there is a team of researchers waiting when you settle onto the designated landing pad. One comes over to hand you <payment> while the rest carefully unload the broken drive and start hauling it back to their lab.
	"Our thanks, Captain <last>. Having the remains of a drive like this will be very beneficial to our efforts." His voice cracks a bit, as if unused to being used much.
	"Great! I will find more."
	"What are you studying?"
	"Our previous research into jump drives determined that these drives are unsurprisingly multi-part systems. We know the outer part that we can see and handle is mostly the machinery for generating some kind of containment field or pocket. As to how it works or why it is needed..." his chant trails off and he makes a gesture you suspect may be the equivalent of a shrug. "Anyway, our team is focused on the nature of this outer system. It is our hope that, damaged as it is, its continued existence might allow us to look a little farther inside its inner workings to figure out exactly what that field does and how it is used.
	"Well, my compatriots finished unloading rather quickly, so I should be off. For all our sakes, I hope you find more of these for us."
The researchers on <planet> need a broken jump drive for testing.
	As you approach the director in the spaceport concourse, he looks up and waves at you. "Good timing, Captain <first>," he sings. "We have a team of researchers on <planet> who have requested a broken jump drive. Could you deliver one to them?"
	"I can," you respond.
	"Excellent. The recent discovery of these broken drives has spurred discussion and excitement in various quarters. We have had teams researching jump drives for at least a century now without a lot of success. I'm told they are rather intricate, but your finds are opening new avenues of investigation. That being said, I will notify the team on <planet> to expect you."
The team waiting for you on <planet> is definitely eager to begin. You barely have the hatch open before they are chivying their camel-pulled wagon up the ramp. They load the broken jump drive surprisingly quickly despite their delicate movements.
	"This is an exciting day, Captain <first>! Countless theories may be proven or put back into the fires of refinement based on the testing we can do with this!"
	"Any theories of note?"
	He looks thoughtful for a moment, then warbles, "As you may know, standard hyperdrives work by generating a fusion reaction and folding it into the fabric of space/time, and these folds naturally fall along the known hyperlanes. I suppose one could view those lanes as the 'crease lines' of the universe. My favorite theory is that jump drives have some additional machinery to guide the fold. That way they can dictate where the fold occurs instead of just aligning with the nearest crease. Given their increased fuel draw, it makes sense that it would take more fuel to generate a fresh fold than to re-use an existing crease.
	"Oh, before I forget..." he hands you <payment>. "Off to start setting up the tests." He sings half to himself as he trundles off after the wagon.
You head over to the director's desk to see who is in need of the next broken jump drive. The director smiles at you, looks over several messages on her screen, then clears her throat.
	"Your finds are very much in demand," she sings. "Could you bring this one to a team working on <planet>?"
	You nod in response.
	"Thank you. We are looking forward to seeing what comes from this."
As you approach your designated pad, you spot a team of researchers with unloading equipment hustling out of a nearby entrance. Once you have completed your shutdown sequence they quickly set to work unloading the drive. Once the task is complete, they pause for a moment to hand you <payment>. "Thanks for finding this," they sing in unison. "Our labs are eager to begin work on your most recent find, Captain <first>. Our thanks!"
	"Good luck with that."
	"How is your research going?"
	"Good, and about to get better," they sing. "We are working on various aspects of a theory that the jump drive actually disregards traditional jumping entirely, and uses the folding mechanism to put the ship itself into a pocket, while somehow triggering an opening to said pocket in the target system." One of them continues, "If this is true, it could be fairly dangerous to try activating these anywhere close to fragile things like cities or mountains, which is why they put our lab on the far side of the planet from all such things.
	"Well, we have a bit of a trip to get to our lab, but it should be exciting once we get there. Fare well!" With that, they head off towards a large vehicle nearby.
A team of engineers on <planet> would like a broken jump drive to study.
	You stop by the director's desk to report having salvaged another broken jump drive for one of their research teams. The director nods in appreciation and checks his list. "There is a new team starting a project on <planet>. Could you take it there please?"
	"Sure," you respond.
	"Much appreciated. The sooner they get it, the sooner they can start on their project. That being said, I have spoken with the other directors, and we have decided that we are getting so many requests that we will put these into the job board for you. Any time the landing scans detect one of these broken jump drives, the system will display a message on the job board listing where the next one needs to be delivered."
The landing pad on <planet> is tucked away just behind the spaceport. A handful of engineers have a conveyor belt already set up to offload the drive from your ship when you arrive. When you open the hatch they extend it right up the ramp, and quickly load the drive onto it. The machinery quickly whisks the drive into a nearby structure along with its escort. A couple of the engineers stop by to talk with you and hand you <payment>.
	"Thanks for bringing us this drive. It is a rare piece of technology for us to get our hands on."
	"I will leave you to it."
	With a pleased expression they break into song about mining the deeps for the mysteries of the sky. As best you can tell, they are trying to figure out the materials that the drive is made with, followed by experiments to replicate those materials.
	"Our experiments await. May your search be fruitful!" they trill as they head off.
Talk to Plume about the void sprites
Plume would be very interested in a report on what happened with the void sprites.
As the swirls of gas close over the <ship> you wonder idly what brought you back here. This time, there is no apologetic researcher asking you to risk your life for research, or to return eggs from where they were stolen. You catch a glimpse of the Archon materializing above the clouds as it decloaks, letting you know that you're being watched, but saying nothing; for now, it is nothing more than a silent, brooding presence in the skies of Nenia. The silent depths of an alien world fold over you, gradually erasing the rest of the galaxy from sight.
	As the <ship> levels off at the designated altitude, you strap yourself into a pressure suit. Stepping into the airlock, you grimace at the antiquity of these "hard-shell" shield systems, and lower the shields so that you can exit onto the hull. Out on the surface, you admire the misty kaleidoscope of colors filtering down through the cloud layers, playing over distant shapes moving in the mists.
	Before long several void sprites emerge, weaving and dancing among the clouds. They swirl for a few minutes around your cargo bay doors as if waiting for something, then pulse briefly with flickers of light and drop into the clouds below. Another void sprite flutters around the <ship>, poking at the hull and sliding over it with its tentacles. You quickly think to turn on your video recorder to catch the scene. The void sprite notices your brief movement, and turns towards you with a lunge. As it closes on you, your attention is drawn to what you suspect is its mouth: a zig-zagging crack that peels open like a zipper to reveal an opening that resembles an industrial grinder.
	Up close, the void sprite is massive. Most of its tentacles are easily as thick as your leg, and move with surprising speed and precision. It shifts through the air like a strange deep-sea fish in water. You can make out a low vibration you suspect is from the air whistling over the void sprite as it closes with you. As the giant creature rapidly approaches, you can feel a heavy paralysis weigh down on you. Suddenly, you recall that your shields are keyed to your equipment; you could activate them to protect yourself and they would extend around you. It probably wouldn't be too healthy for the void sprite, though.
	(Activate the shields.)
	(Do not activate the shields.)
	You push against the paralysis and trigger the shields in a rush. The millisecond that follows feels like an eternity. The void sprite is just a few meters away, one tendril reaches out and touches you just as the shield slams into place. The tendril becomes caught on both sides of the shield, cleaving it in two. In the same instant, the pressure on your mind vanishes as if it was simply a dream. You momentarily stare at the immobile void sprite, frozen in shock over what just happened. Then time reasserts itself and the sprite spasms away from the ship with an unearthly crescendo of dissonant tones. It plunges down into the clouds, leaving you standing on your hull with the floating severed piece of tendril.
	You carefully scoop up the tendril in a container and seal it. While the attack spoiled the beautiful moment, at least you have a sample and some recordings that might be of interest to Plume.
	The feeling of paralysis leaves your body as the void sprite is only a few meters away, but you resolve yourself to face down the creature without triggering your shields. Time seems to slow down as the sprite rushes up to you and its leading tentacle reaches out to touch you. As you brace for an impact you realize that the sprite has managed to bring itself to a complete stop and the tentacle has telescoped in on itself slightly. You can see that it is touching you, but you didn't even feel the impact. You and the void sprite stand frozen for a moment, and the force trying to paralyze you snaps off, replaced by a feeling of weightlessness. Moments later the void sprite pulls back and pulses skyward with an unearthly fountain of sounds, spiraling around the <ship> before disappearing into the swirling clouds.
	As you re-enter the ship, you notice that your suit is covered in some kind of translucent slime. You scrape off as much as you can into a sealed container, but your pressure suit appears to be permanently stained an iridescent purplish color as a result. You resolve to go find Plume, since he will almost certainly find this interesting.
When you walk into Plume's lab on Aventine you find him buried in some kind of holographic projection of your egg returning mission. You can see that he appears to be watching the video in slow-motion as he taps out notes on his data pad. After a few minutes he looks up and sees you standing in the entryway. He quickly pulls himself out of the projection and hits what you assume must be the pause button.
	"Captain <first>! What a pleasant surprise," he trills. "If you are looking for more work, I don't have anything for you right now."
	You tell Plume about how you visited Nenia and had an interesting encounter with a void sprite, and offer him the recording and container of slime. He eagerly accepts the data chip and the container from you. Sliding the container into some kind of machine, it immediately starts to whir as he slots the data chip into his console. Moments later his holographic projection shifts to the new footage. He checks the timestamps, then chants, "These will take me a little while to analyze. I will meet you in the spaceport in a few hours to discuss my preliminary findings."
	You tell Plume about how you visited Nenia and had a threatening encounter with a void sprite, and offer him the recording and container with the tentacle. Plume recoils from you in disgust. "After all our work rebuilding trust with the Archon and the void sprites, you go and risk it for... what, exactly? Sightseeing? Thrill of the hunt?" His chant settles into an angry tone. "Leave the recording on the console. I want no part of that tentacle, though."
	As you are leaving Plume's lab a technician pulls you aside. "Our records mention that the tentacles had some interesting properties that were useful in combat. If you are interested, meet me in the spaceport in a few hours."
Bring slime to <planet>
The void sprite slime has properties of interest to a team of engineers on <planet>.
When Plume finally arrives you can tell from his step that he is excited. He slides onto the bench opposite to you and pulls out a data pad. "I admire your bravery, Captain. I don't think I would have had the courage to hold my ground against a void sprite like that," he chants respectfully, then changes tone to one of wonder. "In that last moment it almost looked like it was sizing you up or examining you." He shakes his head with an amused expression. "I spend so much time studying non-human creatures I sometimes slip and start anthropomorphizing them." His voice takes on a more militant cadence. "That was probably some kind of territorial display, or possibly some kind of dominance challenge. We don't know enough about void sprite behavior to speculate further, though.
	"Be that as it may be, the more immediate reward for your curiosity is in this sample," he trills with excitement. "Several of our labs on Viminal have been working on the development of a new generation of ship technology, and this substance contains some chemicals that could be a key component. I have already transmitted the data to them, but they would like to compare with the original. Could you take this sample to them?"
	Plume stoically accepts that with a nod. "That is your choice. I will arrange for another ship to transport it."
One of Taely's main priorities is improving the maneuverability characteristics of Remnant Ships. To this end she has been working on building a new prototype ship based on the void sprites.
When you land on Viminal a solidly built female Remnant in coveralls is waiting for you. "Greetings, Captain <first>. My name is Taely, and I am a Prefect among the Remnant. Above all else, I study motion, and in particular how our starships move."
	When you land on Viminal you spot Taely waiting for you. "Greetings, Captain <first>. It is good to see you again."
	She makes a gesture you are starting to recognize as a sign of curiosity. "So, Plume sent us some very interesting data, along with a message to expect you with a sample?" You hand her the container with the slime sample and she holds it up to the light. "Interesting looking substance," she chants. "Let's go back to my workshop."
	"Could I catch up with you in a minute?"
	"Sure, just don't take too long. My project has reached its final stage."
	You take your time to get to the workshop, admiring the view along the way. When you finally arrive at the workshop you can hear strange noises coming from inside, accompanied by the smell of a thunderstorm in a swamp. You step into the workshop and come to a stop to stare at the thing in front of you.
	She leads the way through several side passages to an out-of-the-way landing pad connected to a large hangar. Inside, you can see a giant tank filled with a murky fluid, surrounded by equipment and displays. She makes her way over to a large machine with several slots which she slides the container into.
	As the machine starts to work, she turns back to you. "As the primary example of space-faring life, the void sprites have always been of interest to me. They have numerous advantages that we as atmosphere-bound creatures can only dream of, such as being able to experience space in a much more direct manner. I have been working on a side project to build a new generation of ships that melds these ideas with our current technology, but the data we have on the void sprites is centuries old and incomplete." Her chant trails off as she pulls up a display with your original scans on them. "However, your recent explorations provided new data I could use to update my designs. This slime that you retrieved is the final ingredient."
	"So my data is helping to develop new technology?"
	"That's good. Any chance of a bonus for me?"
	The machine dings, and she looks over the results and then trills excitedly. "Yes, it matches! So it is time to begin the final activation." She strides over to a central console and taps in a series of commands, followed by an iris scan and a blood prick. The industrial hum of the room suddenly ramps up to a crescendo as your nose is assaulted by what you can only describe as the smell of a thunderstorm in a swamp. A few seconds later the noise softens, and the tank starts lowering into the floor as a shape emerges from the liquid.
	The ship before you has some faint traces of the Puffin you have flown to Nenia, along with other elements of Remnant design, but it is clearly something new. Its antennae swivel around, as if taking in its environment, and the tentacles along the side twitch and reach out to touch its surroundings. Solidly built tendrils underneath it flex as it lifts itself off its supports and begins to move around. You have a momentary vision of what this ship might look like in the skies of Nenia.
	Taely's droning chant of technical details finally seeps through your reverie: "... So from a captain's point of view flying the Penguin should be very similar to a normal ship, except she flies herself and doesn't need a crew to run her systems." She pauses, and looks at you. "Your curiosity provided the final ingredients to bring her to life. You should be the first to have one." She pats the nose of the Penguin and it makes a whooshing noise. "I call her the 'Shadow Hope,' but you can rename her whatever you like." After a moment she starts going over the ship with a scanner, leaving you to contemplate in silence.
Bring tentacle to <planet>
The tentacle has properties that may be put to use by the engineers on <planet>.
When the technician arrives in the spaceport he immediately strides over to you. "I checked the records, and my memory was correct. One of our research teams centuries ago discovered that these tentacles could be used as a devastating weapon in close quarters combat."
	He pulls out an image of a strange-looking rifle and continues to chant, "The personal weapons lab under Prefect Chilia has a few of the old weapon frames. If you go visit it on Aventine, they could turn this tentacle into a potent weapon for you."
	"That sounds good."
	The technician looks disappointed. "Oh well, enjoy your trophy."
You follow the directions provided to you and eventually find yourself at a Remnant weapons lab. You enter and are met by security, who asks you to wait. A few minutes later a fit young man emerges from another door. "Greetings, Captain <first>," he sings. "I am Prefect Chilia. I have the nominal responsibility for the overall defense of Remnant space and military operations." He smiles deprecatingly. "I say 'nominal' as virtually all our activities are militaristic in some way, but usually fall under the purview of those who better understand them."
You follow the directions provided to you and eventually find yourself at a Remnant weapons lab. You enter and are met by security, who asks you to wait. A few minutes later a fit young man emerges from another door. "Greetings, captain <first>," he sings. "We meet once again." You immediately recognize the voice as being the man who convinced you to provide the blood sample and get to know the Remnant. "We didn't get a proper introduction last time, but you have probably figured out that I have the nominal responsibility for the overall defense of Remnant space and military operations." He smiles deprecatingly, "I say 'nominal' as virtually all our activities are military in some way, but usually fall under the purview of those who better understand them."
	He leads you to a room that looks like an armory where a team of technicians is putting the finishing touches on a rifle stock. "The request from the technician on your behalf caught my attention, as we have not had the key resources for making Void Rifles in centuries. Fortunately, we have not really needed them since we resolved the threats that originally plagued our settlements.
	"It's called a 'Void Rifle'?"
	"I don't need details."
	"Yes, Void Rifle. I don't know who discovered it, but someone figured out that if a particularly high charge was poured through the tentacle's nervous system in a specific pattern, it emits a paralyzing cone of energy with a reasonably decent range. I'm neither an engineer or a biologist, so I do not really understand the mechanics of it." He pauses to watch as a technician installs the now-caged tentacle on top of the stock. "Suffice it to say, it is useless for sniping, but its ability to shoot through walls and affect areas makes it excellent for sweeping ships and building-to-building clearing operations.
	"All right, enough history." He turns to the technicians who are finishing the assembly. "The tentacle has been treated to resist decay and the stock mechanisms will provide basic maintenance routines for as long as you charge it regularly." He strides over, picks up the completed Void Rifle, and then hands it to you. "You are holding a piece of our history, Captain. Use it well!"
Retrieve more keystones
Retrieve quantum keystones from the Hai for the Remnant to study, starting in <destination>.
As an outfitter, Aeolus is responsible for managing the logistics that supply the Remnant with materials, equipment, and resources. In contrast to outfitters in what the Remnant term "ancestral space," he is focused on ensuring the efficient optimization of Remnant ships, not making a profit.
In the spaceport cafeteria, you spot the outfitter who asked you to retrieve a shipment of Hai keystones. He notices you and waves you over, gesturing at an empty chair opposite him.
	"Greetings, <first>! I trust you are settling in among us?" he signs using simple gestures. "I picked up a rumor that you are learning our language, too." You sign the affirmative as you sit down. "Good, that is useful." He pauses, then continues, "I never introduced myself before. My name is Aeolus, and I help manage resource logistics for our fleets." He eyes you for a moment, then ventures, "You came in here with the appearance of looking for something. Is there something on your mind?"
	"How is the outfit business going?"
	"That last job paid rather well. Do you have any more like it?"
	"Well, fairly well. Stocks are up, there are quite a few new outfits in the current, and some recent supply line disruptions have been resolved," he gestures appreciatively. "I am told that we have you to thank for some of that.
	"Those 'quantum keystones' you brought back have been quite interesting. The process of dismantling them for analysis yielded some intriguing results." He notices your expression. "Oh, you were expecting me to sell them, weren't you?"
	(Nod affirmatively.)
	(Shrug noncommittally.)
	"No, I suspected they would be studied instead."
	"What does 'outfits in the current' mean?"
	"Oh, that's just an expression. 'Current' refers to a current of air or water as a metaphor for the development process. It means that there are outfits that are progressing in the development process." He taps at his commlink for a moment. "Back before the Exodus, there was a saying: 'products in the pipeline.' I think that has a comparable meaning to us having 'something in the current.' I am curious, though. Were you expecting me to sell them?"
	Aeolus looks pleased at that. "You are correct. Finding something that does what the Quantum Key Stone does without being identical to it is clearly much more valuable as a subject of research than as a miscellaneous commodity. Add the security implications of slapping an alien device on a ship without thoroughly dismantling it, and the fact that we are not actually concerned with profit in the classical sense, and it is clear that they should not be simply dumped into the outfitting inventory."
	He looks slightly embarrassed. "Sorry to disappoint you, but none of those outfits were ever going to be used in the form they came in, for several different reasons." He ticks them off on his fingers as he lists them. "First, security: slapping an alien device on every ship without having thoroughly dismantled them would be an invitation to getting tracked. Second, research: something that does what the Quantum Key Stone does without being identical to it? Definitely interesting to our researchers. And third, purpose."
	He pauses to take a drink. "Unlike what you are probably used to from the outfitters you dealt with back in the ancestral worlds, my purpose is not to make money. Instead, I ensure that Remnant captains have the resources they need. What you see listed as the 'price,' Remnant captains see listed instead as a 'logistics adjustment' that indicates the amount of resources needed to supply that component. Every ship has a resource budget allocated to it, determining how much it can utilize for repairs, restocking, and improvements."
	"Wait, you didn't sell any of that?"
	"Okay, so that shipment you had me get...?"
	"I have to apologize for that. We knew from our histories that anyone from the ancestral worlds would be attracted by the opportunity to earn a profit, and we needed to give you both a reason to stay, and a way to gauge your willingness to help. Your shipment was definitely useful, but we had to ensure we framed your job in a way that made sense without revealing what we were actually doing.
	"So no, I don't have any jobs 'just like the last one,' but I know our researchers would like another shipment. Are you interested?"
	(Sign in the affirmative.)
	"Why would you assume that I needed a financial motivation?"
	"Great. They would like you to pick up another 19 keystones. Two differences this time: first, we would like you to pick them up from several different planets. And second, by the time you reach Hai space, we will have made arrangements so the shipments will be already paid for and waiting for you. Pick up the first stones on Greenwater, then the next set on Allhome. I will have a list sent to you by the time you reach Allhome."
	"That being said, if you happen to pick up any additional keystones, you can turn them in to the logistics office. They will handle the distribution and compensate you accordingly."
	"Wait, how will you get this all set up?"
	"Sounds good."
	Aeolus looks faintly amused. "While you are certainly adventurous, you are not the only one to have traveled widely. We mapped the Hai systems long ago with cloaked ships, but never landed or contacted any of them. So we never knew anything more than what we could observe from orbit or from scanning ships. But you are known to them, and have a fairly public reputation. By using your transponder codes, we can place and pay for orders through hyperspace relays. All we need is a ship in position to feed the signal into the network."
	Aeolus smiles mysteriously at you. "Let's just say that you are not the only resourceful person among the Remnant. We will share more with you once you have demonstrated your loyalty."
	"While we don't know what is happening on the surface of planets in Ancestral space, we do pick up a fair number of transmissions. Between those and our historical records, it is clear to us that 'making money' is the main motivation for why those in ancestral space do anything. Whether it is ferrying cargo, building a structure, or protecting someone; everything we see says that humanity in ancestral space requires credits for everything it does. And then beyond that, the larger the amount of credits, the more enthusiastic they are to do it." Aeolus shakes his head, looking visibly perturbed. "This is what we see. Tell me, are we wrong? A quote we have seen more than a few times says 'Money makes the world go round,' and everything we have seen supports that attitude."
	"No, you aren't wrong. Money is the reason people work."
	"Yes and no. Most people work for money, but it isn't their only motivation."
	"You are wrong about that. Some people are all about money, but not everyone."
	"This isn't about everyone, this is about me. I'm not here for the money."
	"I am glad that some are willing to act for what is right, necessary or even just curiosity; and not just what they are paid for. It gives me hope for ancestral humanity." His look brightens a bit. "So, are you interested in another job to help us?"
	Aeolus nods sadly. "We appreciate the confirmation, and hope to learn more about those who remained in ancestral lands. It is depressing, however, to think that humanity is so self-centered to put financial wealth as such a high priority. Nonetheless, we do have another job for you. Are you interested?"
	Aeolus nods. "So financial wealth is a priority of necessity, but not necessarily what they would prefer to focus on. Interesting. That gives me a bit of hope." He pauses to consider this, then continues. "The economic beliefs of humanity aside, are you interested in helping us out?"
It takes a few minutes to contact the yardmaster, but once you do, a mixed crew of Hai and human dockworkers have the crates moved promptly from the warehouse to your cargo bay. Hai and humans seem accustomed to working together here.
Retrieve quantum keystones from the Hai for the Remnant to study, next from <destination>
Retrieve quantum keystones from several Hai worlds, ending on Newhome.
True to Aeolus' word, there are crates of Hai quantum keystones waiting for you. As you ensure they are securely loaded, your comm system informs you that a message has arrived. It has no indication of provenance, but appears to be a notification that a payment of 250,000 credits marked 'on-assignment allowance' has been made to your account.
	The attached message is brief and to the point. "Greetings, Captain <first>. Hopefully the shipments were waiting for you. We have made arrangements for samples to be acquired from Makerplace, Stonebreak, Giverstone, Cloudfire, Snowfeather, Icelake, and Heartvalley. Once you have collected all those, head to Newhome. There are a few other places that we are still working to set up, and we should have those ready by the time you reach Newhome."
You are just checking in with the port authorities to locate your shipment when your commlink indicates a pair of messages incoming. While you wait for the second one to load, you see the first message is a deposit statement indicating that a payment of <payment> has been deposited from a "Solar Winds Logistics Ltd."
You quickly locate and load the shipment of quantum keystones. The packaging comes with brochures and images depicting comfortable-looking Hai relaxing on a spaceship observation deck. "Guaranteed to provide the smoothest flight for your passengers!" reads one of the labels.
Sure enough, there is a pair of crates waiting for you. This time the brochure depicts a pair of distinguished elderly Hai relaxing in front of a matte painting.
Return the quantum keystones to Viminal.
The cargo is ready to load, however you do not have enough free space. Come back when you have <tons> of free space.
As you were reading the previous message, a freight hauler arrives with the last few crates and starts unloading them. Looking over the assembled stack, you note that each crate bears the logos and advertisements for a different organization, shipper, or enterprise. The second message turns out to be a confirmation that you have picked up 19 keystones. While there are no new instructions, the subtext is clear: Time to head back.
As you descend through the clouds to Viminal, you get the feeling someone is watching you, but your sensors show nothing more than a smattering of Gulls and a patrol squad in the distance. Looking down, you spot an extra battery of anti-air artillery next to the main entrance to the spaceport. You note the weapons tracking you and quickly tap your recognition code into the IFF system. Within seconds, the large guns are swinging back to cover the initial approach.
	Passing through a cavernous opening into the great spaceport dome, there is a shimmer in the air next to you as a Starling fades into view, settling onto the adjacent platform. The pilot signs a quick, "Greetings, anticipating talking with you," before heading back toward their lock. Behind them, the Starling continues its shutdown checks without any supervision at all.
	As you finish your own shutdown routine, your commlink informs you that your account has been updated with <payment>.
Scan the <npc>
Go scan the <npc> in <waypoints> to record the keystone post-wormhole.
You exit the ship to find that the pilot is actually Aeolus, who has already marshaled some dock workers with a number of wagons and lifters to unload the cargo.
	"Ah, <first>, thank you for retrieving all these keystones." He sweeps some kind of a device over the crates, then opens one. He pokes at the contents, and pulls out a brochure with a picture of a quantum keystone and a pair of respectable looking Hai. "What's this?" He asks curiously. "Because I bought a keystone, they think I might need more? That seems like a decidedly inefficient way of promoting their product."
	"I'm not a fan of it either."
	"Those 'inefficient' capitalists did provide a keystone at one twentieth the cost you do."
	"You will probably do well here, then. Keep production and resources focused on the goal, that always made the most sense to me." Aeolus signs with confidence. "But economic theory aside, we have some science to do.
	"You've got a point there." Signs Aeolus. "Assuming they value a credit the same as we do and they aren't taking a loss, then it appears they do have a significant production and processing cost advantage." He takes on a defensive tone. "But for all we know, the supply of raw materials is much greater in Hai space, or most of these keystones could be simply recycled from older ships. And that is something we want to figure out." He brightens again. "That being said, we already have the first steps set out."
	"Our researchers have decided that we need to test how a ship performs with one of these keystones compared to a regular Key Stone. My ship has been outfitted with one built from the samples you brought us earlier. We request that you meet us in Peragenor, where you will scan us after going through the wormhole. Then we will return here and swap out the Hai keystone with one of our Key Stones. Then we will go back to Peragenor and perform another scan. By using the same ships for both tests, we should be able to get the best data."
	"Wait, you are a pilot?"
	"Oh, yes. It is actually quite common among the Remnant. I am not a particularly good pilot, but it is considered an important skill that is taught to almost everyone as a part of a general education. It is especially worthwhile for those of us who work directly with starships on a daily basis and may be called upon to move or fly one at a moment's notice." His gestures suggest both pride and humility as he talks about his piloting skills. "Anyway, let's go!"
The scanner chimes softly, informing you that it has completed scanning the Winds of Light and has successfully archived the data.
You land on <planet>, but you have not scanned the Starling in <waypoints>. Make sure you scan the ship before returning.
Go scan the <npc> in <waypoints> to record the Key Stone post-wormhole.
The scanner chimes softly once again, informing you that it has completed scanning the Winds of Light and has successfully archived the data from this second scanning.
When you and the <npc> settle back onto the landing pad, there is already a dockworker waiting with a Key Stone. Once the Starling is settled, the dockworker climbs up the outside of the ship, hooks the keystone to a lift and disconnects it from the ship. As the keystone is hauled up to the roof another lift lowers the replacement Key Stone. The dockworker quickly installs it and jumps down, landing gracefully from the several-meter drop.
	"Ready? Let's go!" Aeolus signs as he fires up his systems and gestures an acknowledgment to the dockworker. You check your cameras and see the worker nimbly step clear of the engine exhausts as the two ships head back out of the dome.
You land on <planet>, but you have not scanned the <npc> in <waypoints>. Make sure you scan the ship before returning.
While in transit, you took the opportunity to examine the preliminary results of the scans: there are a few differences between the two stones, but both appear to have functioned similarly. Upon landing on Viminal, Aeolus comes over to collect a copy of the data for the researchers.
	"Thanks for your help, Captain <first>. This information may be valuable in understanding how the wormholes work." He pauses, then continues thoughtfully. "Perhaps more importantly, it may help us understand how the wormholes of the Ember Waste are different from the wormholes elsewhere that require no such aid."
	He looks down at the data crystal. "I have one more task to ask of you. Meet me in the cafeteria in an hour to discuss it. May the Embers burn bright for you, Captain." He gives a wave that seems vaguely like a salute and heads off.
	As he disappears from sight you hear a faint chime from your commlink, which displays a message indicating that two payments of <payment> have been allocated to your account. You recall that you didn't get a message after the last mission, so whichever Remnant person or agency is sending you these payments must have combined them. You do find it odd, however, that they always seem to know exactly when you finish a delivery.
A copy of the scanner data needs to be delivered to the researchers on <destination>.
You walk into the cafeteria and spot Aeolus halfway through an impressively large meal. He waves you over, and by the time you are seated a tray with a significantly smaller meal is waiting for you. While you have become accustomed to a few of the dishes, most of them are still very unappetizing.
	"The Remnant sure like to eat."
	"Why do the Remnant eat so much?"
	"Maybe I should import some spices."
	"What is our next step?"
	Aeolus chuckles and makes an amused gesture. "An army lives and dies by its food! A poorly fed soldier is but a short step away from being a deserter, or even a traitor. While we have had lean years in the past, these days we ensure everyone is well fed."
	He looks at you appraisingly. "There are some things you cannot learn yet. Ask us again when you have earned more of our trust."
remnant symbionts info
	He leans forward and holds up his hands, poking at the leather fingerless gloves he is wearing, and you realize that they extend up under his sleeves. You note that the leather does not actually look like any leather you have seen - it has fine scales and rough ridges on it. What stands out the most, however, is that it appears to pulse faintly.
	"The truth is, when we eat, we are eating for two. You will have to ask someone else how they came to be or how it works, but suffice it to say that we have developed a symbiotic relationship with a variety of creatures we found here. These ones," He explains while holding up his hands, "have a knack for accuracy and durability. With them, I am more precise than I would otherwise be, and much tougher. In exchange, they feed through us and require regular care and attention. Normally, this causes us no hardship, but if we do not eat enough, we will consume our reserves far faster than we normally would."
	"That is quite the revelation."
	"Is that why some of the food tastes terrible?"
	"Sounds creepy."
	Aeolus nods. "From what I have heard, the ancestral worlds do not seem to have much in the way of exoskeletons or cybernetics. The living organisms we wear would certainly seem to be the realm of science-fiction." He contemplates his symbiont for a few seconds as he absent-mindedly eats more of his meal. "But education aside, there is work to do."
	He shakes his head. "I will not discourage you doing so - and I am sure some might appreciate them - but most of us like our food the way it is." He chuckles, then continues. "But there is still work to do."
	"I suppose it might. Our symbionts have different dietary requirements, and such unusual compounds in our food inevitably change the flavor. We are all long since used to it, but it would definitely be different for an outsider." He seems amused by this. "But enough of food - there is work to do!"
	"Creepy? I do not understand how something so useful and beneficial could be 'creepy,' but I suppose some might equate our symbionts with leeches. To each their own, I suppose." He shrugs, then continues. "But enough. We still have work to do."
	He pulls out a small metal briefcase and sets it on the table. "Another delivery mission for you, Captain. A short one, at that. We need you to take this case of data crystals with our preliminary data to some researchers on <destination>. This will allow them to combine the data we have collected with their most recent findings, and perhaps help us take a step forward towards understanding the nature of both these stones and the wormholes. Will you do it?"
A young researcher is waiting for you when you exit the <ship>. "Thank you for your assistance, Captain," she signs with one hand as she accepts the briefcase with the other. "There has been a lot of concentrated study on the wormholes over the past several centuries. While we know much about them..." she makes a convoluted gesture that you think translates to "knowing that you don't know."
	"Now, thanks to your acquisitions, we have the opportunity for new insights. We are looking forward to learning more about these anomalies. May the Embers burn bright for you, Captain." With that, she turns and heads off towards a lab.
	As you contemplate the implications of the Remnant studying the wormholes, your commlink chimes with a notification of another payment of <payment> being made to your account.
Travel to <destination> to prepare for an expedition to Sagittarius A*. Ensure that you have at least six tons of outfit space available.
You glance into the starport cafeteria and see Dawn sitting at a table looking worried. She hasn't noticed you yet. Do you approach her?
	She smiles when she sees you, and waves you to the seat opposite her. "Back from gallivanting around the galaxy with more tales to share?" she signs.
	"Yes, as a matter of fact..."
	"No, just hunting Korath..."
	"No, just testing some stuff..."
	"You look worried. Is something happening?"
	She listens for a minute or two as you tell her about what you've been up to, but it's obvious that she has something else on her mind.
	"You look worried. Is everything alright?"
	"You look distracted. Do you want to talk about it?"
	She makes a gesture of appreciation. "Yes, I am worried, <first>. I keep feeling like there is something I am missing." She frowns, contemplating something unseen. "I should back up a step. Since we last talked, I was assigned to serve with an astrophysics team for a year. My current work is part of the quantum condensate fabric density project, and I have been tasked with reviewing our bulk astrophysical data. It is fairly routine, but I keep getting this prickly feeling that there is a problem that I am missing. Nothing obvious, of course. Our neural networks would pick up something explicit or repetitive very quickly. But the feeling just will not go away."
	"Have you asked someone with more experience for advice?"
	"Can I help with something?"
	"What is the quantum condensate fabric density project?"
	"I did. The senior researcher told me that most of the team feels something is not quite right here. They say there are some potential theories, but nothing definitive, so they want me to investigate on my own without contaminating my thoughts with their ideas for now."
	"It is basically a project examining the density of Bose-Einstein condensates as correlated to the revised relativity paradigm's conceptualization of the fabric of space-time. It has a lot of potential implications, particularly for ramscoop, scanner, and weapons technology. At least, that is the hope. For now, though, I am trying to figure out what is off about this data."
	"Thanks for the advice, but that is our purpose here - to worry about all the things that humanity either cannot handle or that it turns a blind eye to. No, if there is something in the data to cause worry, we need to find it."
	"If you would like to help, there is something you can do. I am currently putting together an expedition to Sagittarius A* to collect some fresh data I can use to check our records, and I could use a transport..." She looks at you hopefully.
	"I don't know where that is."
	"Isn't that the center of the galaxy?"
	"I have been there."
	"Really?" She looks surprised. "I have seen sensor logs and recordings from previous visits, but not many people have actually been there." She pauses to take a bite from her neglected meal. "Being able to take part in these fieldwork expeditions is something I have been looking forward to for ages, so of course Sagittarius A* is the first place on my list."
	"Yes, that is correct." She signs firmly.
	Her signs take on a rhythmic pace as if reciting something. "Sagittarius A* is a strong astronomical radio source and a supermassive black hole that is located at the center of the Milky Way. According to our best measurements, it has a mass of 3F6290 solar masses and is surrounded by a ring of gas and dust that can range from 63 to 24D2 degrees Kelvin."
	She returns to a conversational cadence. "Would you be interested in taking part in this expedition?"
	"Sure, what do you need?"
	"You want me to take you to a black hole?!"
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in visiting a black hole."
	She looks momentarily surprised by your reaction. "Yes, exactly that. Current gravitational repulsor engines can nullify most of the gravitational pull, and an extra Thermoelectric Cooler or two should be sufficient to manage the heat. As such, the risks are manageable so long as you do not try to approach the event horizon.
	"For this particular mission, we will need some additional scientific equipment that is actually hardwired into your ship, not just carried along with us. When we arrive on <planet>, they will have the equipment ready to install. Just be aware that it will require six tons of outfit space and a scientist to run it, so you will need a free bunk for them, too.
	"Once the laboratory module is installed, it will simply be a matter of traveling to Sagittarius A*. After our measurements, recordings, and observations are complete, we will return and report on our findings."
	She glances down at her half-finished meal. "I am already packed and ready to go. I will meet you onboard the <ship> as soon as I am done eating."
	"Okay, I will meet you onboard the ship."
	"Developed quite the appetite, haven't you?"
	She shrugs. "I burn a lot of calories, and healthy eating is important. Besides, I don't know how good food will be on your ship." She resumes eating with vigor and does not seem inclined to continue the conversation.
	"I am not yet used to the nutrient intake required to maintain my symbiont, so I have to consciously make sure that I eat enough to sustain it."
	"Symbiont? What is that?"
	"What? You're joking, right?"
	"Suit yourself. I will meet you onboard once I'm done." She shrugs, and returns to eating.
	"Oh, no one has told you about them? I thought once you'd demonstrated your trustworthiness and earned your capital ship license you would have found out." She pauses to take another bite, then continues.
	She nods. "Yes, I am not yet used to the nutrient intake required to maintain my symbiont, so I have to consciously make sure that I eat enough to sustain it."
	"Interesting. I will see you onboard the <ship>."
	"Could you tell me more about them?"
	"In short, we domesticated some of the creatures found here ages ago and discovered that they could be attached to us to form a symbiotic relationship." She pauses again to eat. "I only recently received mine, so I am not fully adjusted to it yet."
	"Okay, that's as much as I need to know."
	"What is it like to have a symbiont?"
	"Oh, it is wonderful. It is very hard to describe. At first it is just slimy, then a lot of tingling. The tingling lasted for several hours, and then it was just like waking up: rising up out of darkness to a brighter world with just so much to see and learn. Suddenly, it was as if everything was moving slower, and I could take a long, hard look at everything..." Dawn is visibly excited, signing so fast you have trouble following.
	"Thanks for the description. I should go prep the <ship> now."
	"Where is your symbiont? Yours does not seem to be obvious."
	"Could I see your symbiont?"
	Dawn looks at you with an amused expression. "We do not know each other nearly well enough for that. Better to focus on the expedition. I will catch up to you on the ship."
	She nods. "Well, I will finish my meal and meet you on the <ship> shortly." With that, she returns to her meal.
	Dawn looks at you with an amused expression. "Just as every human is a unique individual, so every symbiont is also unique. As such, they attach to different areas of the body. We do not know each other well enough for me to tell you more than that.
	"We should probably be focusing on the expedition, though. You go get the <ship> ready for launch, and I will be there shortly."
You follow the directions of the starport control and settle onto a pad next to the outfitter. You barely have a chance to finish your landing checks before a team of Remnant have a compact pod waiting on your loading ramp. Once you open the cargo bay doors, they pick it up and maneuver it inside. They start securing it to the ship while Dawn and one of the scientists approaches you.
	"We have loaded the Research Laboratory onboard. The team will install it if they can find the space, but if they do not, it will be secured in the cargo bay," The Remnant scientist explains. "Before you depart, please verify that the laboratory is installed in the correct location. You know your ship better than we do, after all." She turns back to Dawn and makes a gesture of respect. "Embers guide your path, Seeker." With that, she strides away into the hive of activity that is the outfitting bays.
	"So, what is our next step?"
	"Seeker?"
	Dawn looks a little embarrassed. "Seeker is a title of respect for deep space explorers. It is unofficial - just a token of respect - but it is a title that I both aspire to earn and do not feel I deserve yet."
	"I thought all Remnant were spacefarers?"
	"Okay. So what next?"
	"Oh, we are. Every Remnant has had some experience in space. But there is a big difference between a few weeks of duty in a spacefaring post and spending months or years drifting in the void surrounding distant systems."
	"Years drifting in the void?"
	"Okay, let's get on with this."
	"If you want good data, you need to spend time to get it. And especially when we are tracking stellar phenomena, you need periods of long observation. Snapshots of the sky are good - that is what we will be collecting on this trip. But for watching the galaxy at large, other civilizations, and things of that ilk... Nothing is better than long-term observation." She looks lost in thought for a moment. "That is neither here nor there, however.
	"Now that you have the Research Laboratory, you will need to locate a jump drive in order to reach Sagittarius A*." She pauses and checks her commlink. "If you do not already have one, you can salvage one from a Korath raider. Our early warning system indicates that there are several incoming Korath fleets that should be here within the next day or two. Any one of them should have a jump drive you can take. Meet me in the starport once you have a jump drive."
Research expedition to Sagittarius A*
Travel to Sagittarius A* with a Research Laboratory installed in order to make measurements on the supermassive black hole and then return to <destination>.
You need a jump drive and a research laboratory to take this mission.
Dawn is just finishing her meal when you enter the spaceport cafeteria. She stands up as you approach and deposits the tray in a receptacle next to her table. "Well, ready to go?"
	"I should double check everything."
	She nods. "I am ready, so I will come with you and wait onboard the <ship> while you do your checks."
	She gestures towards the exit closest to your ship and heads off at a quick pace. Outside, she moves calmly through the hustle and bustle of the starport, stepping around quick-moving freight movers and camel wagons alike. Arriving at the <ship>, she turns and waits for you to catch up.
	Just as you arrive and reach for the console to open the airlock, you sense a change in your surroundings. Looking around, you see that a group of Remnant gathered around the two of you, focused on Dawn. A young Remnant - scarcely more than a child - steps forward. "Thank you for your patience," he says, then steps back. An elderly Remnant steps forward. "Thank you for your curiosity," she says, then steps back. A middle-aged Remnant steps forward. "Go with our blessing, Seeker, and know that wherever you go, the Remnant go with you." She says it simply, but you feel the weight of tradition behind them. She turns to you. "And you, stranger who walks the stars... May the Embers guide your steps as you walk among us." She nods respectfully, then steps back.
	As soon as the third steps back there is a flurry of movement as each of the Remnant present quickly step forward, give her a quick hug, and then scurry off into the starport. Before you process what is going on, all the Remnant gathered around you have vanished. You look at Dawn, and her expression is a mixture of awe and humility.
	"They know you are coming back, right?"
	"What was that about?"
	"Alright, let's get going."
	"Well, what we are doing is dangerous. We will be crossing Korath territory, a wide expanse of uninhabited space, and then scanning a black hole. I have confidence that we will return, but nonetheless there is still a chance that we will die in the process.
	"Long ago we, as a people, decided that we must face the fear of separation, unknown, and danger. One of the ways we do that is by holding these informal ceremonies. When one of us is going to depart on their first long-distance voyage into hostile territory, a group of Remnant gather to bid them farewell. It is a way to strengthen ourselves and remind each other of our connections."
	"Kind of like a funeral, with friends and family gathering to see you off?"
	"Oh, no. I said my farewells to my friends and relatives before we left. Those who gathered to see me off today were more of a representation of Remnant society. I only recognized a few of them, but they took the time to come down to the <ship> to meet me before I left. They came to see me and wish me well, so that no matter what challenges I face, I will know that the Remnant remember me and appreciate what I am doing." Her gestures fade into contemplative stillness for a moment, then resume motion.
	She gestures towards the airlock door. "Lead the way, Captain."
As the jump drive's energy ripples fade away, the spectacular void that is Sagittarius A* takes shape before you. Compared to the vast darkness of space that you are accustomed to, reality here feels almost like a color negative: even with the automatic filtering in your windows, space is incredibly bright with the densely packed stars that provide a backdrop for its inky mass. The moment of awe is shattered by alarms warning of your impending doom as the <ship> begins to fall inwards towards the black hole. You quickly activate your repulsor engines, which, although vastly under-powered for dealing with the immense pull of a black hole, does provide a degree of protection so long as you maintain a safe distance from it.
	After a few minutes of just absorbing the spectacle before you, Dawn pulls herself away from the cockpit windows and scurries down to the lab. Leaving you to your thoughts, she quickly has the lab set up and running a variety of recordings, tests, and observations. After a few hours of work, she reappears on the bridge.
	"Things are proceeding smoothly, Captain. All the sensors are working nominally, and we are creating extensive archives of astronomical data as well. Another few hours, and we should have all the data we need."
	"Good work. What kind of data are you recording?
	"Sounds good. Just let me know when you are ready to leave."
	She smiles, and replies. "It might be easier to ask what we are leaving out. The data we are collecting broadly falls into three sets: data on Sagittarius A* itself, data on its environment, and observations of the surrounding galaxy from here. Obviously, we cannot go take samples of Sagittarius A* itself, nor can we take direct measurements of most of its properties, but we can get data from increasingly minute distances from the event horizon. We can then add this data to that gathered by previous expeditions, note the differences, and use it in our modeling."
	"So this is not the first expedition here?"
	"Anything unusual in the data?"
	"How much longer does the equipment need?"
	"No, this is the forty-third such expedition. Sagittarius A* was one of the first places our explorers sought to visit after we acquired jump drives, and we have been coming back regularly ever since. I know some of our reconnaissance pilots consider visiting here a pilgrimage of sorts. It is humbling to be here myself after reviewing so many data sets of past expeditions." She looks thoughtful, staring out the window at the the hub of the galaxy, as if her thoughts are jumping from idea to idea.
	"There are many oddities about this place. Every visit helps revise our physics models a little closer. But they also reveal problems." She frowns, her gestures taking on a curious tone. "For instance, you will note that your ramscoops are not picking up anything. According to standard astronomical theory, this system should be a veritable river of suitable material, and yet there is nothing. Not even the normal background trace amounts we find in deep space. We have visited other black holes, and they conform to the standard models in this respect. But not Sagittarius A*." She pauses, thinking about it for a moment.
	"Is the equipment finished?"
	"The equipment will be finished shortly, Captain <first>. I just need to make a few observations, and then we will be able to depart. In the meantime, I would recommend against maintaining an active cloak or engaging any systems that consume fuel. For whatever reason, Sagittarius A* continues to be the one place that the stellar wind is utterly devoid of anything to collect as fuel."
	"I will be going outside for a few minutes," Dawn declares. "I shall just be on the hull."
	"Let me know when you are done."
	"Would you mind if I came too?"
	"Not at all, Captain. The view should be remarkable, and so long as we stay inside the shields, the radiation will not pose a problem." You quickly don your spacesuit and join Dawn outside on the hull. As promised, the view is indeed magnificent. Dawn signs occasionally, pointing out various features, and you appreciate that out here, sound would just be incongruous with the natural splendor.
	After what feels like hours, the equipment notifies you that it has finished taking its readings, and Dawn packs up the data in carefully shielded data crystals. Everything is ready to return to <destination>.
The journey back to <planet> was a lesson in galactic formation as the <ship> jumped through a steady stream of systems. Gradually, the brilliant density of stars that make up the inner core faded into the ominous and yet comfortingly familiar red glow of the Ember Waste. Finally, you slide into the approach patterns of <planet>, quickly tapping out your code into the IFF system and watching as the protective gaze of the anti-air emplacements sweep the skies around you for shadowing craft.
You settle onto your assigned pad, and within seconds Remnant technicians have resupply cables hooked up while a cheerful group greets Dawn before helping her unload her luggage and data crystals. "Well, <first>, it has been a good trip." She taps at her commlink. "I have transferred our expedition's logistics allotment of <payment> to you. And in case you're wondering what to do with your Research Laboratory, you can keep it. We always need fresh data, and if you are interested, you can check up on places designated in the job board. While I handled the science on this expedition, if you keep it installed your ship systems will automatically hire a scientist to run it." She nods her head in respect to you. "Thank you, and may the Embers watch over you." She turns and heads off into the flows of people.
Ember Waste Storm Scanning
Dawn has asked that you scan one of the Ember Waste's storms at <waypoints> and return with the data to <planet>.
As you cross the starport, you are suddenly ambushed by Dawn appearing out of a side hallway. "Captain <first>! I have been hoping to catch you. I need some help." She hurries up, waving a datapad full of charts. "I have some additional leads for my research project, and I need a pilot who can take me out to Aescolanus." She looks at you hopefully.
	"Sure, I am always willing to help."
	"Not today, sorry."
	"Excellent! You already have a Research Laboratory onboard, and it has all the equipment I need. Now, before we head out, you should know that the goal of this mission is to do some analysis on the leading edge of a storm that will be breaking on the system shortly. We do not need to weather the entire storm, but we will have to be there for at least the first part."
	"Are there any special adjustments needed?"
	"The <ship> is ready to go."
	"Well, I expect you are already set up to handle the normal Ember Waste heat, correct?" She continues without waiting for you to reply. "The Ember Waste storms are primarily a danger to electrical systems - typically by draining your power. So you can compensate by ensuring that you have some excess available for use. I know some captains carry extra generators to ensure they always have extra power, but others instead carry extra Crystal Capacitors so they can outlast the storm. In theory, you could just accept that your ship will be shut down during the height of the storm, and simply reboot everything afterwards. So long as no threats are present, it is safe but somewhat nerve-wracking. Which strategy fits the <ship> is up to you."
	"I will settle into a bunk to do some pre-calculations. Please let me know when we arrive in Aescolanus."
Dawn quickly sets to work expanding the laboratory and setting up her instruments. After a few minutes, she returns to the cockpit and settles into a chair by the window. "Everything is ready, Captain. Now we just wait for the storm to arrive. I will let you know when we are ready to leave."
As the storm starts to swell around you, the instrumentation chimes to indicate that it has collected all the data it needs. Dawn quickly begins the shutdown routine to protect the equipment against potential damage, giving you the OK to return back to <planet>.
"Thank you for your help, <first>. Sometimes I have to wait a while before we have a ship available to do missions like these." She pauses, then taps her commlink. "Speaking of which, I have confirmed the transfer of the logistics fee of <payment> to your account."
	"I am always happy to help. What are you working on now, anyway?"
	"I am always happy to help. See you around!"
	"How familiar are you with the nature of space?"
	"Not very, to be honest."
	"I know space is a vacuum, and can be either extremely hot or extremely cold depending on circumstances..."
	She nods "Honesty is good. It is hard to learn when we are not willing to admit that we do not know something."
	She nods "Those are the basics, a good starting point."
	A hologram of the Ember Waste appears over her commlink. "As you have no doubt picked up on, the Ember Waste does not conform to humanity's commonly understood rules about space. For instance, the standard background temperature is 2.B1 degrees, and the average density of the interstellar medium is F4240 particles per cubic meter. Here in the Ember Waste, the average background temperature is an order of magnitude greater and has an average density of E8D4A51000 particles per cubic meter."
	The display changes as an overlay of haze appears, pulsing in intensity. "Most interestingly, though, is that this area is significantly more variable than the rest of the galaxy. The haze shown here represents the heat hazard schematic we produce for our captains. It combines the local density with the measured heat values to estimate how much heat ships will be exposed to in the area."
	"Interesting! Is that what causes the red glow?"
	"Wait a second. Why are there letters in your numbers?"
	"Thanks! I think that is all the details I can handle right now."
	"Not really, although it does contribute to it. Most of the red glow seems to be the result of clouds of hydrogen gases at approximately 2710 degrees, rather like the process documented by early Earth astronomers investigating nebulae. Except for most of these clouds, there is no obvious source of energy to keep the hydrogen excited. Obviously there is still energy being added to the system, but..." She trails off and gestures deprecatingly. "One more mystery to keep us alert and attentive."
	She smiles thoughtfully, and the display changes with the red haze vanishing and a silvery haze replacing it. "But that is where today's research comes in. We have been measuring these storms since we arrived in the Ember Waste. The human eye can only pick out a few of them on the display, but our algorithms have identified a significant number of ripples of energy." She appears thoughtful.
	"It is almost like watching the surface of a pond during a rainstorm: The surface appears to be chaotic, but with detailed enough instrumentation, one can pick out individual ripples and trace their paths backwards... Except we have yet to find an actual source for any of them. We can trace every ripple on a pond in a storm and find its origin, but we have yet to learn the dance that we have lived in for half a millennia."
	"What do the storms have to do with the heat?"
	"What units do you use for temperature?"
	"I think that is all the technical detail I can take."
	She looks mischievous. "I cannot tell you where or how we got it, but look at this." Her display shifts again with the hazes vanishing, and shows the galaxy map with one key difference. "Yes, the Ember Wastes are violet. Actually, they are off the visual spectrum into the ultraviolets, but this downshifts it so we can see it. This is what the Ember Wastes looked like a very long time ago."
	She takes on a serious tone. "This data suggests there is enough energy in the area to maintain the hydrogen at somewhere in excess of 61A8 degrees. It does not tell us the source of that energy, but based on patterns and some other data we have collected, the two appear to be intertwined. At the very least, the ion storms are one of the means by which energy is being transferred into the clouds." Her display vanishes, and she slings her backpack over her shoulder.
	She looks confused for a moment before responding. "It is called hexadecimal. It is a base 16 numeric system." She pauses to look at you. "Based on your reaction, I assume that base 10 is still the standard in human space?"
	"How does that work?"
	"Quite simply: We have added some extra characters. When counting, instead of a single digit position restarting at 0 every 10, they cycle every 16. So when we count, we start at 1, but when we reach 9, the next number will be A. Then B, C, D, E and F. Then, it is at that point that we add an extra digit and restart at 0 with 10. So in hexadecimal F would be equal to 15 in base 10. One of the advantages of using a numeric system with a higher base is that we can handle larger numbers with fewer digits. For example, with two digits we can communicate any integer up to what would be 255 in base 10. Or with three digits we can reach 4095. Saving an extra digit here or there is fairly meaningless in written formats, nor is it much of a difference in oral communication. However, when one communicates by gestures, it is helpful to shorten the numbers where we can."
	"Now that you understand our numbers a bit better, you will be able to recognize that there is a lot of unexplained energy being transferred out there."
	"Right. Is that what causes the red glow?"
	She looks at you curiously. "Corrected degrees Kelvin, of course. Why?"
	"What are 'Corrected degrees Kelvin'?"
	"Just clarifying. I prefer to use degrees Centigrade."
	"Just clarifying. I prefer to use degrees Fahrenheit."
	"Corrected degrees Kelvin are basically the standard Kelvin scale developed millennia ago, but with a slight correction factor to account for the adjustments determined by the conjunction of 2730. It is a rather minuscule change to the scale that is mostly only applicable to experiments or industrial applications that require micro-degree temperature precision, but can be significant at the larger scales." The display and its field of stars vanishes as she slings her backpack over her shoulder.
	"People still use that? We learned about it in our studies, mostly in case we came across references to it our library. I have seen it a few times, but it is rarely used among us." The display and its field of stars vanishes as she slings her backpack over her shoulder.
	She looks at you quizzically for a moment, and then her display shifts to a mass of symbols. She skims briefly. "I have never even heard of such a unit. Apparently it is a very old one, though. Our records say that it had largely stopped being used by early in the 21st century. Well, I learned something new today." The display and its field of symbols vanishes as she slings her backpack over her shoulder.
	"Thanks for the ride, Captain. I have to get working on this data, but if you are interested in helping some more, I hope to have more research expeditions planned soon."
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>.
You step out of the <ship> amidst the strange sight of the <origin> spaceport. The structures that surround the landing pads look as much grown as built, and they seem to merge into the landing pads themselves. As usual, the dock entrance is busy. When your commlink vibrates, you have to find a place where the traffic eddies so you can step aside. When you do, you learn you need to check in with the information desk.
	The woman working the desk seems startled to see you when you walk up. You can see the realization dawn on her as she looks you over with a practiced eye. "Ah," she sings, "you are the ancestral sojourner among us."
	It is typical for people to gawk at you, so you respond by singing, "The Embers guided me to friends I didn't know, and your message invited me to meet a new one."
	Her hands make a short series of shakes and a moment later she remembers to laugh for you. The delayed response makes her laugh again, spontaneously this time, and you both join in. When she recovers herself, she sings, "Logistics have requested that we find someone who can carry <tons> of cargo to <planet>. Is the <ship> available immediately?"
	"Certainly!"
	"Sorry, it is not."
	"Excellent," she responds in a full alto, "I will let the project manager know the cargo will arrive promptly." She signs what you think is a farewell and turns to address someone else who has stepped up.
	You manage to chant and point your way through the cafeteria line, and you are aware of the flurry of signs around you. There doesn't seem to be a way to pay, so you find a table and sit alone until your commlink chimes to let you know that the <ship> has been refueled and the mystery cargo loaded.
	"That is unfortunate," she sings as she makes a notation on her terminal. "But there will be others who are willing to help."
You step off the <ship> on <planet> to see a man wandering around your ship taking video with a datapad and softly dictating some running commentary. He dodges around the dock workers unloading and refueling, seemingly intent on recording every aspect of your ship.
	"Cousin!" he sings with excitement when you walk up to him. "It is good to meet you and to see your wonderful ship. It excites me to be able to examine something I have only seen in entertainments based on our scouting reports." He holds up the datapad facing you and says, "I am making a video for my companion. He will not believe me unless I have proof, and maybe not even then!" he laughs. You wave at the camera and he stops recording.
	"I hope I have not offended you. I get carried away looking at ships." He runs his hand along the landing strut but then seems to collect himself and turn back to you. "I am named Eon," he says. "Would you have time to talk about logistics support?"
	"Yes, I've been looking for more work with the Remnant."
	"Yes, there haven't been many opportunities so far."
Eon leads you to the bustling cafeteria, chattering about ship design since the Alpha Wars. He orders a couple of hot drinks and leads you to a quiet table overlooking the docks. You try your drink. It's strongly flavored but a bit odd, like someone's memory of what coffee should taste like, reconstituted from local foods.
	Eon leaves his untouched as he launches into conversation. "Those of us in logistics have noticed that you are spending time in our systems, and we wanted to see if you would be available to pick up work for us. It would be delivery work like the generator you brought for the housing project."
	(Nod)
	"You put starship radiothermals in your houses?"
	"You do not?" he responds playfully. "Well, 'generators in each community' would be more accurate. We maintain a decentralized power grid so we have more resiliency in the event of an attack or natural disaster. It also makes use of the power plants we salvage from the Korath and ones we recover from our own damaged ships. Besides, widely deploying the technology ensures that we have expertise to maintain and repair it all across the Remnant. But," he signs a pushing motion, "civil engineering is another subject. I hope you are more interested in how we move our various cargoes."
	"That generator was originally scheduled for delivery 30 days from now, but it was ready earlier and the project can install it now. So, by bringing it over, you have enabled us to move the project forward and free up delivery capacity next month."
	"So, why did you offer this work to me?" you ask, trying to mimic the gestures you've seen that you think refer to one's self.
	He smiles and responds, "Very good! Very good! We schedule everything, but we maintain slack in the system to take advantage of opportunities like the power system being ready early, or to deal with emergencies. Sometimes, of course, we have to drop everything and sort the schedule out later. But, in normal times, we publish these jobs on the job board and captains that have capacity available can pick them up. The projects provide resource allocations to cover operating and crew costs, but there is no... what is the word? Margin, yes! Since your ship is not in our planned resources, you provide extra capacity, and we might be able to move some of our larger projects forward when you are in our space.
	"Thanks for the opportunity."
	"Will your pilots be upset at the competition?"
	Eon smiles at the question. "You should talk to the other pilots and see, but I think the ancestral approach is different. We work more like a military: the ships are owned by the Remnant, but each captain is responsible for the ship, the crew, and the transport work that needs to be done. I think they will be happy to see new homes being built, and freeing up more time for them and their crews to spend within the community."
	Before you can ask more about transport jobs, Eon takes out his commlink and taps on it for a few minutes. "You now have access to the logistics job board. You should be able to see our current job list for each system when you check."
	You continue to chat with Eon as you sip your drink. When you finish, his commlink chirps. As he stands, he signs what you think means "goodbye" as he says he has to leave for another meeting. He walks off quickly with his head down looking at the datapad. Your commlink notifies you that <payment> have been added to your account.
pair
couple
pack
squad
team
family
group
small group
medium group
large group
Lots of
Remnant
System Security
Local
System
Defense
Advisory
Status
Threats
Incoming Korath Fleet in 
${00-07} days
 hours. Threat Sierra-
Incoming Korath Ship in 
Salvage
Attack
Decoy
Talon
Wing
prepare for
ready for
standby for
hold for
departure
launch
Salvage ships report to orbit for incoming Korath ships.
No change in current threat level.
Maintain normal security status.
All departing ships advised to have weapon systems hot.
All departing ships advised to expect hostiles in the vicinity.
Reminder to update your IFF settings and verify keys.
Reminder to verify functionality of selective IFF broadcast every startup.
Spaceport
Loading dock
Cafeteria
Landing pad
Landing dock
Spaceport alley
Spaceport hallway
 sign 
 gesture 
quickly
calmly
leisurely
slowly
deliberately
carefully
precisely
sharply
briskly
sweepingly
intensively
meticulously
at length
vaguely
hurriedly
hastily
abruptly
spontaneously
each other
another Remnant
other Remnant
a Remnant at the information desk
a dockworker
something or someone you can't see
You cannot 
make out
figure out
 what they are 
saying
communicating
conveying
discussing
Dining room
Buffet
Canteen
Kitchen
collect trays heaped with food from the kitchen window
appear to be enjoying a large meal together
are relaxing around the remains of a large meal
are signing to each other over a large meal
are reading reports over a large meal
are examining holo projections over a large meal
From this angle, 
Without them facing you, 
all you can 
what you can 
catch
discern
 is that they are 
discussing a recent salvage operation
making lunch plans
arguing about engine efficiencies
gossiping about a visitor from outside the Ember Waste
While Esquiline used to be simply another planet the Remnant harvested valuable resources from, the introduction of void sprites and the activation of their station has turned this world into a hidden research lab: The first human astrobiology station studying void sprites.
Although the facilities here are basic, the Remnant cafeteria boasts a food dispenser that is available at any time, along with a mesmerizing view of the clouds outside. Occasionally a void sprite will pass in front of the window, much to the delight of everyone.
The silence of this station rings in your ears, and as you explore you are increasingly surprised that it even has an atmosphere. It is obviously ancient, and patches of ambiguous green and purple material resembling fungus grow through the walls. Whoever built this station designed it for beings much larger than you - either that, or they liked spacious environments. Even the shortest doorway you pass through is easily double your height. They are always wider than they are tall.
	Exploring beyond the docks reveals that most of this facility is infrastructure for some type of massive emitter. It is not clear exactly what it's supposed to be emitting, but it might have something to do with how this system appeared in the first place.
The Remnant have set up a fully self-contained base of operations in this part of the station. Independent life support, its own power system, and controls tapping into the rest of station occupy much of the space, while a Research Laboratory and additional equipment fill up the rest. A rudimentary cafeteria, communication links, basic repair equipment, and sleeping quarters round out the amenities of this research camp.
You are not quite sure what Fetriery is. It lacks cohesive edges, and yet it has sufficient atmospheric pressure to threaten the hull integrity of ships not designed for high pressure environments. Despite such density, which would indicate a strong gravitational presence, your sensors are unable to find any kind of core.
Delving further into the clouds, it becomes obvious that the entire planet appears to be a mix of gases, aerosols, and suspended particles. Despite this, or perhaps because of it, void sprites appear to thrive in its depths, where they can be seen dancing among energy currents reminiscent of the ion storms.
Hoverboarding with Taely
Take Taely to visit <stopovers>, then return to <planet>.
	You are just settling down at a table in the cafeteria when Taely slides onto the bench opposite you. "Greetings, <first>. How is life as an adventurer?"
	"Exciting as always."
	"I am taking a break right now."
	She nods sympathetically. "Things have been a bit hectic lately, what with dimensional pockets and mysterious new aliens. I can understand wanting to slow down a bit. With the launch of two new ships in such a short time, I know I feel like I need to just relax a bit." She sighs. "It makes me feel guilty, honestly. I have accomplished so much, and there are so many things to be grateful for, but I even have more projects in development to focus on." She looks lost in thought for a moment.
	Taely looks up at you. "Could I ask you something about life back in ancestral space?"
	"Oh, maybe some other time, then." She looks disappointed, and settles in to eat.
	"I have been reading through the history archive you brought back, and I came across a mention of Vail." She shakes her head in amusement. "The idea of an entire planet devoted to hoverboarding and leisure activities seems so extravagant... Well, I am curious to visit it. Now, this is not a mission we are asking you to do, so I cannot offer any logistics compensation. I could, however, show you some of our history in exchange. Are you interested?"
	"Yes, that sounds fun."
	"Sure, I have done a bit of hoverboarding myself."
	"Really? The description sounded useful for exploration, and it looked challenging." Her commlink shifts to display a hologram of a hoverboarder executing a jump with an artistic poof of snow around them. "Anyway, I think this trip should be a good diversion for us both. I will meet you onboard the <ship> shortly."
	"Excellent. I will meet you onboard the <ship> shortly."
As you approach, your navigation system picks up the beacons designating the approach path, and before long you are automatically guided to a landing pad on the outskirts of the main spaceport.
As you approach Vail, the specialized sensors from your Remnant Research Laboratory detect parts of the weather control network tasked with increasing the amount of snowfall on the planet. Your navigation system picks up the beacons designating the approach path, and before too long you are automatically guided down to a landing pad on the outskirts of the main spaceport.
	Looking outside the ship, you can see a multitude of tourist-oriented facilities overwhelming the normal spaceport functions. You can pick out a small sign off to the side that indicates professional commodity and banking facilities, but otherwise the area is dominated by businesses offering mountain touring, sports classes, and vehicle rentals. Next to you, Taely alternates between peering out at the signs and reading brochures on a new commlink. "Here, <first>. This one sounds more interested in providing a challenge and less pampering. What do you think?"
	"Looks good to me."
	"Alright, should be good."
	The resort in question is a more exclusive facility, and is located away from the main train lines. You rent a hovercar from one of the rental companies and make the short trek out to the resort. The rest of the day is spent out on the slopes, where both you and Taely eventually develop sufficient skill to graduate from the easy runs up to the medium difficulty. You both fall repeatedly, but Taely's good humor is contagious as she takes the inevitable facefuls of snow in stride.
	The resort in question is a more exclusive facility, and is located away from the main train lines. You rent a hovercar from one of the rental companies and make the short trek out to the resort. The rest of the day is spent out on the slopes, where you teach Taely the basics of hoverboarding. By the end of the day Taely has impressed you with her quick learning and you finish off with a few runs down some of the more challenging slopes. Taely spills a few times, but she takes her failures in good humor, and never seems to make the same mistake twice.
	Heading back to the spaceport after a day of hoverboarding, Taely surprises you by pulling the hood open on the hovercar and spending almost an hour going over the internal systems before closing it up with a nod. "Well, that was interesting. The hovercar, I mean." She gestures at it with her commlink. "So many different manufacturers were involved in making this vehicle. Sometimes I wonder if humanity appreciates the luxury such diversity affords them." She looks thoughtful, then gestures toward the ship. "Well, <first>, I promised you a tour of a historic Remnant district. Caelian has perhaps the best example of one, so I would recommend we go there."
Taely directs you to a landing pad on the outskirts of the main spaceport, in an area that seems mostly filled with Gulls and Pelicans shifting larger quantities of products. Disembarking from the <ship>, she leads you down a large series of escalators that branch off in several directions, occasionally connecting with large ramps filled with steady stream of cargo traffic. After a few minutes they deposit you on a large platform.
	Approaching the edge of the platform, Taely puts out her arm to stop you from advancing any farther. "Watch out for the barrier," she says as she puts a hand out and touches something in mid-air in front of you. As she leans on it you can see faint ripples around her hand. "They are an essential safety feature, but they can still hurt if you run into them." She gestures to easily recognizable hazard markings on the floor. "With time you will learn to notice the faint shield ripples in the air, but meanwhile, just remember that anywhere that has the 'stand-back' lines on the floor likely has shields above it most of the time."
	Moments later, you see why the barriers are in place as a large train whooshes into the station at high speed before quickly coming to a stop. The barrier vanishes, and Taely leads you onto the train. Looking up and down the length of it, you can see hundreds, maybe even thousands of Remnant entering and exiting the train. Within moments the doors close, and the train starts moving again as you are pressed back into your seat. You see a few lights flicker past outside the window, but soon there is nothing outside but a monotonous dark blur.
	Taely notices your gaze. "Sorry, but there will not be much to see out there. The entire train line is quite far underground. Far enough to simply pass under terrain obstacles like rivers, valleys, or chasms." She nods to herself in satisfaction. "This will not be a long trip: we will only spend a few minutes at top speed before we start decelerating near our destination. I would recommend buckling into the harness."
	"I am looking forward to seeing where we are going."
	"How fast does this go?"
	"The C3-L0 Maglev has a maximum rated velocity of 11D.E78 meters per second, and can sustain that almost indefinitely so long as the track remains powered. In practice, it rarely maintains that velocity for more than a few minutes at a time, as it is a local transport train. We do have some that go faster, but the amount of acceleration required to make use of them on short tracks is not terribly practical." She looks wistful. "Many people are working on solving the inertia problem, but Embers only know when that will result in something practical."
	"Interesting. How long until we arrive?"
	"Why is that number so precise?"
	"That sounds like the speed of light."
	Taely smiles. "After all the safety factors, margins for error, and assorted other adjustments were taken into account, someone noticed that, when expressed in scientific notation, the coefficient of the rated value was calculated to be 1.1DE79, a fraction above the coefficient of the speed of light in a vacuum, so they adjusted the rated maximum velocity down only slightly so that they would match."
	"What is a coefficient?"
	"What is scientific notation?"
	"Here, I will switch to base 10 to make it easier for you to understand." She pulls up a hologram with 299,792,458 m/s on it. As she speaks, the number shifts to 2.99792458x10^8 m/s. "When we write out a number such as the speed of light, it is typical to break it into parts. This is generally referred to as scientific notation. This is done to facilitate comparing and working with large numbers. The first part, 2.99792458 in this case, would be called the coefficient. The second part, x10, is called the base; and the third part, ^8 is the exponent." The display shifts again to show 1.1DE784Ax10^7 m/s. "So this would be how we typically write the speed of light when we are using it in our research. So, 1.1DE78 is the coefficient of both the speed of light and the speed of the train, just with a different exponent." She pauses, then vanishes the display. "We will be arriving momentarily, so I should probably stop there."
	After several minutes, the lights in the train car suddenly pulse several times, and the train starts to decelerate heavily. You can feel yourself pushing into the harness as the train slows and comes to a stop. Unbuckling, Taely leads you out onto the platform, and then up a long escalator to the surface. Emerging into the sunlight, you find yourself looking around at a scene that seems almost anachronistic.
	Taely looks around with pride, and then watches your reaction with amusement.
	"I do not know what to make of this."
	"This is a spaceport?"
	She nods, and guides you amongst the stream of camel-drawn hovercarts heading for the gate. "This is one of our earliest spaceports, before we learned new techniques better suited to our new home. Our founding ships brought as much as they could, of course, but as it turns out, the earliest phases of expansion look much the same, whether one is looking at historic pre-flight eras or modern settlement efforts."
	"It still seems odd to see camels pulling levitating platforms."
	"Stone walls seem like an odd thing to build."
	"Are those wind turbines?"
	"All these wood products seem surprising."
	"I think I have seen enough."
	Taely picks up a board from a nearby pile. "We were fortunate that Caelian had some vegetation that could be used like this. The native vegetation is biologically quite different from the trees of Earth, but they have similar structural characteristics and grow plentifully in many areas." She offers you the board. "The decision was made early on that anything that could be made from locally sourced materials, should be sourced locally. We wanted to conserve our limited supplies of metals and other rare resources for things that required it." She taps on a barrel. "These are a prime example - a few metal straps enable the wood to hold a significant amount of liquid. It is much the same as how a comparatively small amount of bone in our bodies can provide the necessary structure for a large volume of soft tissues and organs to function."
	"Is that so? The engineering advantages are quite simple: with the mechanics of the cart focused entirely on supporting the load and the camel providing horizontal motion, the cart can support much larger masses than it could if it had to split the forces." She looks wistful. "In truth, I am somewhat envious of the industrial capacity the ancestral worlds contain - we have accomplished much, but we have had to make choices, and one of those was the decision as to where to spend our industrial capacity. We chose, obviously, to focus on spacecraft and heavy industrial applications. We have no cars, no personal vehicles at all, really. Even these hovercarts are basically the repulsor systems from our spacecraft that have been repurposed to carry massive loads."
	Taely gestures out through the gate at the distant landscape. "It is ironic that, in many respects, the distant stars are more accessible to us than the metaphorical far side of the mountain. Those of us who explore our worlds often resort to long expeditions with camel trains to carry all their scientific equipment. Spending months away from friends or family while on a project is commonplace, even for those who never leave the surface of our planets. Many of our explorers, in fact, live nomadic lifestyles - moving every couple of weeks to a new research location as they study, document, and analyze the world." Her gestures take on a reverent tone. "Many of our most important discoveries can be attributed to these explorers."
	Her tone shifts to one of amusement. "We were lucky, though. Our camels were able to sustain themselves on several categories of local vegetation right from the start. It took quite a bit of experimentation with bacterial cultures, however, before we were able to enable them to really forage properly. Now they thrive here. Some experts suspect that, if we were to ever leave, the camels would probably continue to survive here for millennia to come."
	Taely's expression becomes mournful as she leads you over to the walls. "We discovered soon after we arrived here that this planet was not as safe as it appeared. It had a variety of natural predators, including swarms of predatory creatures that were very aggressive in hunting us. They preferred darkness, and while they had excellent eyesight, their hearing was even sharper. A swarm could triangulate the position of a person from a single spoken word at great distances."
	She gestures up at the edge of the wall. "Fortunately, we discovered that while they were quite competent climbers, they could not navigate overhangs. So while such lips are generally considered a structural vulnerability when defending against modern weapons, they are indispensable for containing local wildlife. These walls served as well later on, too, when we had to deal with Korath ground attacks and other more complex threats."
	"They are indeed wind turbines." She steps through the gate to a spot with a better view. You can see that while the ones on the wall are only a couple of meters tall, the ones on top of the towers are significantly bigger. "Our ancestors rightly guessed that anywhere that had sufficient atmosphere to dispense with pressure suits would also have wind. The vertical style also has the advantage that it handles high wind speeds and rapid variation in direction much better than some of the shapes that were more traditional at the time of the exodus. It seems to be a good precaution, as it has enabled these to survive the harsh windstorms that can sweep across the continent. While they have been repaired and improved over the centuries, these wind turbines still provide sufficient power for much of the agricultural uses out here, so we let them continue. They are also useful to remind us from where we have come."
	Taely leads you around the area for a few more hours, pointing out historical features, places where they resurrected trades and skills from before the advent of flight, and other interesting things. Eventually she heads back to the train station, which deposits you back in the main spaceport.
	"I hope you enjoyed the tour, <first>. It was interesting to see our history through fresh eyes." She smiles mischievously. "And I enjoyed the hoverboarding, too. Maybe we can do it again sometime." She pauses for a moment, focusing on something you cannot see. "Looks like duty calls. Embers guide your way, Captain <last>." She waves, and heads off into the crowd.
Deliver Celebration records to <destination>
The Remnant have asked you to take records of their celebration to <destination>.
You stop by the starport just in time to see a large group of Remnant departing. A few of the nearest notice your interest and begin gesturing recognition or various invitations to accompany them, but before you are able to respond, Taely appears from the stream of people and approaches you.
	"Well met, <first>. We were just going to the monthly Celebration of Remembrance. Would you like to accompany us?"
	"Yes, I would."
	She nods. "Well, may the Embers guide you, <first>." With that, she rejoins the stream of people as they vanish from sight.
	"The Celebration of Remembrance is a gathering; we take a moment to remember where we have come from, appreciate where we are, and express hope for where we will be in the future." Her gestures take on a critical tone. "That sounds very formal, but it is more artistic than defined." She glances at the slowing flow of people. "It will be starting shortly, and I want to attend this month, so I should get moving. Would you like to join us?"
	As the two of you join the flow of people, Taely gestures once again. "If you would like, I could provide you with some commentary and explanation, but it is more about feeling than doing anything specific. Together, we remember and celebrate through free-form dance mixed with singing and music. You are welcome to participate, but try not to disrupt or impede others in the way you join the dancing."
	"No, that is alright. I will just experience it."
	"Yes, that would be appreciated."
	The crowd you have joined merges with other flows of people as you all stream onward, eventually emerging from the typical hallways into a massive cave. On one side, a large opening, framed by rough stone and a handful of shield emitters, looks up toward the night sky. Stalagmites with matching stalactites above them ring the perimeter of the room, but there is no sound of drips or traces of lingering moisture here. While the walls are still rough, natural stone, the floor and all the stalagmites have been polished smooth. With a quick glance, you estimate that there are already over a hundred people in here, and more are still filtering in around you and through several other doors. Taely leads you through the crowd, frequently gesturing greetings to those she passes by.
	Without warning the room stills, and all the doors close. A flurry of gestures washes out from the center of the room, as if everyone is repeating what someone has said, but you cannot see anyone starting it. "Perimeter secure?" comes the gestured question, followed by an answering ripple from the edges of the room back toward the center: "All clear."
	Suddenly, you become aware of a drum beat building in the silence, and then realize that it had already started with the first ripple of gestures, so quiet that, until now, it was unnoticeable. The beat builds gradually: a slow, steady rhythm.
	"Thump."
	(Look around the room.)
	(Move in time with the beat.)
	The beat echoes in the cavern, but you quickly manage to locate the source: an elderly Remnant using her hands to drum against a polished stalagmite that, judging by the resonance, appears to be hollow. As you watch, a child steps up next to her and starts also hitting the rock with their palms, slightly off-beat, changing the pattern into a hauntingly familiar one:
	"Thump-thump."
	Looking around the room you can see people starting to move in time with the beat. Some are swaying, and some are nodding their heads or tapping their feet. Standing next to you, Taely has a hand on her heart, tapping softly. Soon you hear other drummers join in as the beat resonates throughout the room. Now people are not merely swaying to the beat, but dancing. Some spin in place, others rock back and forth between different stances, and a few have joined hands and begun moving in a circle. Everywhere you look there are people dancing in countless variations.
	Out of the chaos you hear a voice rise in song. You cannot make out what it is saying, but it carries the tones of anticipation. You can, however, clearly decipher a chant from many other voices, cutting through the solo voice in time with the drumming:
	"...6...5...4...Ignition...2...1...Liftoff!"
	(Look around with anticipation.)
	(Look around nervously.)
	Taely notices your anxiety and gestures reassuringly: "All is well."
	On the final word the chant ends and dozens of deep voices join together in a roaring crescendo before fading away, replaced by many new voices expressing tones of wonder. At this point, it seems that almost every single person in the room is drumming, dancing, or singing - many seem to be doing several simultaneously.
	As the stars wheel through the night sky above the mouth of the cave, you note the flow of the ceremony seems to be telling a story of some kind. You understand very few snippets of words, but the emotion conveyed in the singing is clear. The early tone of anticipation shifts to the roar of excitement and then on to a peaceful tone of wonder.
	As the ceremony continues, this shifts again to a steady, almost mechanical feel, which is in turn abruptly penetrated by a piercing thread of excitement, leading to the entire tone of the song becoming one of curiosity over another driving beat. The melody then seems to wander more, caught in duel tones of regret and anticipation, mourning and rejoicing, terror and hope, disorder and structure, disappointment and awe, and countless other deeply emotional pairings before finally culminating in a return to the original, unified heartbeat as the singers' voices come together, reaching upwards in hope before finally everything trails off into silence.
	(Stand still and absorb the moment.)
	(Look around to see what is happening next.)
	Around you, everyone has gone still. Most look exhausted, and some are sitting on the floor or leaning against the walls. A few people look like they have been crying, and those nearby are hugging them or simply touching their shoulder. Most of the people you can see have reverent and joyful expressions. After the silence lingers for what feels like several minutes, the doors open and people start to leave. In short order the cave is nearly empty.
	The crowd you have joined merges with other flows of people as you all stream onward, eventually emerging from the typical hallways into a massive cave. On one side, a large opening, framed by rough stone and a handful of shield emitters, looks up towards the night sky. Stalagmites with matching stalactites above them ring the perimeter of the room, but there is no sound of drips or traces of lingering moisture here. While the walls are still rough, natural stone, the floor and all the stalagmites have been polished smooth. With a quick glance, you estimate that there are already over a hundred people in here, and more are still filtering in around you and through several other doors. Taely leads you through the crowd, frequently gesturing greetings to those she passes by.
	Taely gestures quietly to you. "We start with the ritual query and response asking if we are safe. Safe in this moment, at least."
	At your side, Taely gestures again. "Existence starts with the patterns of the universe, and our story starts with life."
	Out of the chaos you hear a voice rise in song. You cannot make out what it is saying, but it carries the tones of anticipation. You can, however, clearly decipher a chant from many other voices, cutting through the solo voice in time with the drumming but not overwhelming either:
	Taely notices your anxiety and gestures reassuringly. "They sing of the days of humanity's infancy; when we first ventured out of the cradle."
	As the ceremony continues, this shifts again to a steady, almost mechanical feel, which is in turn abruptly penetrated by a piercing thread of excitement, leading to the entire tone of the song becoming one of curiosity over another driving beat. The melody then seems to wander more, caught in dual tones of regret and anticipation, mourning and rejoicing, terror and hope, disorder and structure, disappointment and awe, and countless other deeply emotional pairings before finally culminating in a return to the original, unified heartbeat as the singers' voices come together, reaching upwards in hope before finally everything trails off into silence.
	Through it all, Taely offers a running commentary on how each stretch of the ceremony represents a different piece of their collective history, ranging from the launch of the first human into space to its commercialization and then the new age of exploration opened by the advent of hyperdrives. It also includes numerous conflicts, disasters, and wars. Much of it is rather familiar to you from what you know of human history, but the later part is strange and unfamiliar. Filled with stories of first contact, strange ruins, alien invasions, desperate last stands, and brilliant discoveries, you are left with the impression that, despite the Remnant's current security, they have been on the precipice of extinction for much of their existence.
	"I always find these Celebrations of Remembrance to be invigorating," Taely says. "What did you think of it, <first>?"
	"I think I will have to get back to you on that later."
	"That was awe-inspiring."
	"Why were some of the people crying?"
	"Who leads these ceremonies?"
	"That seemed both well-rehearsed and very disorganized."
	Taely smiles at that. "Well, it is and it is not. We hold these several times a month, though most people take part in only one every few weeks. Most of us have attended hundreds of these. Although as far as that goes, every one of these celebrations is different. Each person's participation and style is entirely up to them, so the details and feel of the group celebration as a whole are unique every time." After explaining this, she makes a singular gesture you have come to realize encompasses the idea, "If you have more questions, ask them."
	"I think that is all for now."
	Taely's gestures take on a tone of conviction. "For something like this, or anything of a social or spiritual nature for that matter, we determine who takes the lead for various parts at the moment, based on who is present. Whether we are talking about our connection with society, or our connection to the Universe, we must each forge our own understanding of it. As such, when we gather together for ceremonies such as this, virtually anyone could be chosen to take the lead for one of the segments.
	"As a result, each celebration takes on a different feel - after all, each of us has our own unique perspective, and bring our own experiences to contribute." She pauses, and adopts a respectful tone. "The ceremony is not just about major events, either. Everyone who takes part brings their own life experiences and memories to the story we tell. Memories of friends and family who are no longer with us are common as well."
	"You said 'virtually.' Who is omitted?"
	Taely scowls a bit at this. "Only those guilty of the most serious crimes cannot stand as a lead." She pauses, and continues with an amused tone. "Even children take the lead now and then, usually with a parent or sibling to guide them." She smiles at that, then gestures for you to continue asking your questions.
	"What constitutes your most serious crimes?"
	Taely gestures harshly. "Crimes against society, of course. Acting against the best interest of our collective well-being is the single most destructive and senseless act someone can perpetrate."
	Taely gestures gently. "Many were friends of the crew of a ship that was recently destroyed while studying a black hole. They acquired ground-breaking data from it, but perished in the process. Their friends and families are proud of them, of course, but that does not change the fact that they are lost to us mortals. Sometimes the whole experience is simply overwhelming, and some of us still sorrow for other losses in our stories."
	Taely nods in agreement and simply gestures expansively at the cavern around you, giving you a few moments to contemplate it. Eventually she gestures asking if you have any further questions.
	Taely strides over to a console near the closest door and retrieves a crystal from a compartment within. She slips it into a case and turns back to you. "Our celebrations are something that bind us together, and we share in both the memory of the departed and the hope for the future. As such, we keep recordings of them so that those who are not present at a particular event may still experience it too. This recording is destined for those working in Postverta, as a friend of one of those being mourned today is stationed there. Could you deliver this to them please?"
	She looks disappointed, but merely shrugs and pockets the crystal. "I will find someone else to transport this, then."
When you arrive on Postverta there is a small group of Remnant waiting at the landing bay for you. As you hand the crystal to one, another gestures, "Thank you for bringing this to us, Captain <first>. Being able to join in the Remembrance will help me to celebrate those who have gone on before." The group heads off into the depths of the station, leaving you in the bay.
	Taely never mentioned anything about compensation, but as soon as the Remnant leave, your commlink notifies you that you have been assigned <payment>.
New EMP deployment
The Remnant are deploying a new version of the EMP, and invite you to watch.
You note a disturbance in the shipyards before the <ship> even touches the ground. Every pad is filled with ships, camels pulling wagon trains loaded with canisters trundle out of the outfitter, and technicians clamber everywhere. As you step out of your ship, Taely slides down the side of a Merganser resting next to you.
	"Good timing, Captain! We just rolled out an upgrade to some of our oldest equipment, and our Mergansers finally have something to carry as first-strike weapons. Interested in taking a look?"
	"Sorry, but I'm a bit busy at the moment."
	She turns and heads towards a nearby lift where another crew of Remnant had just moved several EMP Torpedo canisters into place. "Well, you have probably seen us use EMP Torpedoes now and then, right? Well, as you probably noticed, they have a few tactical issues. They are slow, they often hit our ships almost as much as our targets, and they take up space we could otherwise be using for more important things like laboratories or scanners." She taps a few commands into the console, and the lift begins raising the canisters towards the waiting ship.
	"Over the past decades we have had a few teams working on improving them from different angles. Some focused on the torpedoes themselves, others focused on the launcher. The surprising development, however, was from a team working down in the Warren. They figured out a way to shave a few cubic meters off the systems that assemble the torpedoes, and compress the whole structure. Very impressive work, and the results should be in the outfitter for you in the next day or two."
	She looks at you and nods contemplatively. "One thing worth noting - you are making great strides in learning our language, so new items that appear in our outfitter will be listed under their proper name instead of substitutes from the ancestral tongue."
	"Whatever makes things easier for everyone."
	"Thanks. What names were changed?"
	She looks amused. "Mainly weapons. If something is named an adjective that describes what it does, then it was a name we made up on the spot to include in the linguistic overlay we put in place for the displays. We did that so that you would have an easier time understanding what something does. Thankfully, you no longer need such aides."
	"Thanks! Circling back to our earlier topic, what does 'Warren' mean?"
	"It is our term for the network of caves, tunnels, and spaces deep underground. All three of our main worlds have them in some form or another. We know a little about the original people who built them, but not nearly as much as we would like. They called themselves the Zitchal Maudrakoi, and one of the most distinguishing features we have been able to learn about them is that they do not seem to attach much importance to directionality. For example, in a control room we found, there were instruments and controls on every available surface, with just a scattering of handholds to support the operator." She shrugs. "Plume or Dusk would know more than I about them. I mostly focus on understanding their equipment."
	"Well, I should get back to work, then. Next time you are in space, take a look at how our ships fare in battle. Hopefully you will see an improvement." She grabs a couple components from a nearby lift, and scrambles back up the side of the Merganser to continue working on an a new bay.
Now that the most recent Korath raiders have been defeated, you decide to check your sensor logs to see how the new EMP Torpedoes Taely talked about performed. You note that the EMP bursts no longer have an impact on friendly ships. This could make them much more versatile.
You recall Taely mentioning something about new weaponry, so you decide to check your logs to see what your sensors have recorded lately. Looking over the most recent combat details, you note that the EMP bursts no longer have an impact on friendly ships. This could make them much more versatile.
This ship barely registers on your sensors, and you can clearly see through it. The Remnant will want to know about it. You should probably look for Taely on Viminal.
Looking around the Viminal spaceport, you spot Taely using something that slightly resembles a small catapult to launch a sizable rock across the cavern. A nearby Merganser leaps into the air and chases after it, pouncing on the rock and vanishing from sight before reappearing next to Taely, dropping it next to her. Without looking away from the Merganser she waves you over.
	"Well met, <first>, how goes your travels? Found anything interesting?"
	She listens to your description of the encounter with the ghostly ship whilst looking at the recording you pull up from your commlink. "This is very intriguing. I will need to consult a few people. If you are interested in investigating this, ensure your ship has a Research Laboratory installed, and meet me in the spaceport."
Searching for Ghosts
Take Ruach to find and scan the ghostly ship.
Your commlink chimes with a note that this mission requires a Research Laboratory as well as 2 tons of cargo space and 1 free bunk.
Your arrival in the spaceport finds Taely in deep conversation with an elderly Remnant, empty food trays cluttering the table before them. They both turn when you approach, breaking off their conversation.
	"Thank you for coming, Captain <last>. I would like to introduce you to Ruach. She was a shipyard engineering prefect for many decades, but now spends most of her time as a teacher."
	Ruach gives a polite bow. "Taely lays too many compliments on me," she gestures with amusement. "I fulfilled my duty doing the best with that which the Embers blessed me, nothing more, nothing less. But it has been rewarding watching someone take everything I taught them and fly with it to heights I could only dream of."
	Ruach's gestures take on a more precise cadence. "Taely tells me that you have spotted a strange 'ghost' in Caeculus that bears a resemblance to ancestral ships. Could you take me to do a scan of it please?"
Ruach pores over the scanning arrays before reporting that the subject is not present. She suggests searching nearby systems to locate it.
This ship seems a bit more solid than it did when you first saw it, but it does not seem to be quite present.
The <ship> hasn't even settled onto the landing pad when Ruach leaps down from the airlock and jogs a couple of spots down to stare up at the gills of an Albatross. A few moments later, Taely drops out of them, greeting Ruach warmly. By the time you join them, Ruach has a hologram of the spectral ship floating in the air. "It is lacking the confirmation codes or identification info, but I am confident that this is it," muses Ruach as you arrive.
	"Sorry for leaving you behind, <first>, but this is just such an exciting discovery. This ship you found matches the profile of the Shattered Light - a large city ship that was part of the Exodus but never arrived on this side of the wormhole. There are so many questions to be answered! Anyway, the data is being distributed right now. Meet me in the cafeteria in a few hours to see what ideas have come up. Oh, and before I forget, we have allotted you <payment> for your assistance."
Ghost Touch
Help the Remnant experiment on the Shattered Light.
As you approach the starport your commlink chimes with a message from Ruach requesting that you make space for 13 people as well as 19 tons of cargo.
A group of people huddled around a hologram catches your attention, drawing your eyes to Ruach who gestures for you to join them. She introduces you to each person, before thanking you. "I would just like to start by offering our thanks for your assistance, Captain <first>. You have sharp eyes to pick this up as early as you did." She gestures to the hologram of the ship floating in front of you. "Other scouts reported it shortly thereafter, but you spotted it first.
	"We have confirmed that this matches all available records of the Shattered Light, although it appears to have suffered considerable damage. One of the oldest mysteries here is what has happened to it, and what we should do about it."
	Another Remnant steps forward and the hologram changes to show a scene from a cave with a large object. Other Remnant appear to aim some equipment at it, and after a moment or two, the object expands to several times its original size. "These are recordings from our explorations of the ruins, demonstrating the decompression of a Maudrakoi artifact. While not identical, these artifacts generate similar readings to those recorded during your scan of the Shattered Light.
	"As such, our proposition is to use the same equipment we used for decompression to stabilize the Shattered Light's weft field, and, if possible, bring it fully into synchronicity once again." She nods firmly, clapping her hands together to make the hologram vanish.
	Ruach takes the lead again. "So, Captain, we will need you to bring us in close to the Shattered Light so we can give this a try. Our sentries have reported seeing it in the systems near Coluber, so it may take some searching."
	"Looks good. Start loading the <ship>!"
	"Wait, 'Maudrakoi'?"
	The Remnant who showed the video looks startled, and then embarrassed. "My apologies, I did not realize you had not been familiarized with them." She looks around the room, then gestures. The hologram returns, now showing a large room with many shelves around the edge and several large objects within it, including some that look like Point Defense Turrets.
	"We do not have time for an in-depth presentation, but the short version is this: the Maudrakoi are the primary civilization that lived on these worlds before we arrived. They are not the only civilization to have lived here, but they are the one we find most often in the archeological record. Fortunately for our research, it seems that they lived extensively underground in complexes such as this one."
	Her gestures take on an appreciative tone. "The Maudrakoi made extensive use of the materials that make our ships and architecture so distinctive, and this has allowed their cities and technologies to survive the eons since they went extinct. One technology of note is they had an interesting ability to manipulate space. They used this to make large, highly complex objects, and then, for lack of a better term, partially embed them in pocket dimensions so as to not be entirely present. They used this frequently to allow equipment and materials to be much smaller than normal." She shrugs, and gestures with a frustrated tone. "We cannot replicate it, but we have figured out how to disrupt the compression, and thus recover the artifact."
	The hologram shifts back to showing the Shattered Light. "This ship does not show the same signatures as the Maudrakoi artifacts, but we think it is sufficiently similar that our equipment should work on it too. Hopefully. In any case, though, time is passing, so we should start loading." With that, the Remnant gather their equipment and head out.
Ruach briefly checks the scanning arrays before reporting that, unsurprisingly, the ship seems to not be present. She suggests searching nearby systems to locate it.
As the scan results arrive the data is relayed down to the team in the cargo hold. Your video feed shows a large hologram of the system floating in midair above one of the pallets. Nearby, terminals flash rolling readouts and analyses. As the data on the spectral ship solidifies, cones of projected courses appear on the display. Line by line the cone tightens in as additional data flows from your telemetry, closing in on a path intersecting with the nearby world.
	While the system continues to refine the orbital paths, the team seemed disinclined to wait: Ruach activates her commlink, broadcasting quickly to you. "It is on a crash course for Far Monad!" she exclaims. "Quick, land there!" Behind her, you can see her team scrambling to move equipment around near your cargo door and seal their spacesuits.
Shattered Light
Escort the wreck back to Viminal.
With the Shattered Light careening towards the surface of Far Monad, you push the <ship> into a dive. As you focus on finding a safe place to land within close proximity of the approaching ship, you notice out the corner of your eye that the Remnant team have all suited up and are pushing their equipment to the cargo hatch. A message appears on your console.
	"Ready for drop, Captain. Just get us along side the Shattered Light without too much forward velocity. We can handle the rest."
	Moments later you spot a gaping hole on the ship. Focusing on it, you fly the <ship> down and hold position just above it. A glance at your cargo hold display shows the Remnant vanishing out the back lock. Your exterior cameras show the equipment falling into it on repulsor pallets while the Remnant drop alongside it. A final message appears on your console.
	Moments later the <ship> pings a point on the Shattered Light indicating a gaping hole on the ship. Nodding your assent, your ship swoops to a hold position just above it. A glance at your cargo hold display shows the Remnant vanishing out the back lock. Your exterior cameras show the equipment falling into the hole on repulsor pallets while the Remnant drop alongside it. A final message appears on your console.
	"Drop success. Get clear of the arrival zone and pick us up after the dust settles."
	With their confirmation, you quickly pull away from the approaching wreck and retreat to a safe distance.
	The <ship> veers and accelerates away from the approaching wreck without waiting for your approval and retreats to a safe distance.
	Eventually, you find a good vantage point, several kilometers away, where you can watch the approaching ship. The Shattered Light falls through the sky with deceptive slowness, made all the worse by the fact that you can see clouds and sky passing through it. As it nears the surface you see a ripple in the air explode out from it, followed by a concussive shockwave as the Shattered Light suddenly becomes very solid. Its engines flare to life with a roar that rattles your bones and the ship lurches to a stop in mid-air, before crunching down into the forest.
	The dust and debris settle within a few minutes, and soon you and the <ship> are skimming over the vegetation. The approach gives you ample time to appreciate just how massive the Shattered Light is; everything that one could need to lay the foundations for a new colony is packed into a single ship. You note large gashes in the hull, massive sensor arrays, and a shattered dome on top. Based on the mismatch of parts, this ship has been substantially modified from its original hull, and survived untold damage.
	As you slow to a hover alongside the ship, Ruach appears on your viewscreen. "Well met, Captain! Our theory worked! We managed to snap the Shattered Light back into the Primary Weft, and are now onboard. The systems are dubious, though, so we dare not shut anything down lest we cannot restart it. We would appreciate your assistance in escorting us back to Viminal."
The Shattered Light is so massive that traffic control directs you to a large valley next to the spaceport, where you discover that a section of the chasm has been covered to create a semi-enclosed area. Judging from the equipment and stacks of cargo, this area looks like it is predominantly used by bulk freight shipments and little else. Now, however, as the Shattered Light slowly moves in, a flock of Pelicans scatter in front of it looking like nothing more than a flock of plovers in front of an approaching camel.
	Down on the ground, you see Ruach and her team exit an airlock on the side of the Shattered Light and jump down to the ground. They gather around, giving hugs. "<first>!" exclaims Ruach. "We have recovered a lost piece of Remnant history. Thank you for helping. I do not know what this will mean for us in the long term, but there will be a lot of careful examination for the next few weeks."
	"I have things to do, so just let me know if I can help."
	"So, what happened?"
	The team of Remnant are almost too excited for you to understand their gestures, but one calms down enough that their signing is comprehensible. "To be honest, we were expecting this to be the first of several trips doing detailed scans and trying out different sorts of synchronization fields. But when we saw that it was heading to the planet..." She trails off, and another one continues. "We already had the sensors running as we approached, so we jumped and triggered the fields as soon as we got a reasonable match."
	He frowns a bit. "It worked, although not perfectly. There are chunks missing, some of which seriously impair its functionality. But it is back in the Primary Weft, so now we have time to work on it and figure out what happened to it."
	"I think I get the picture. Let me know if I can help."
	"What is this 'Primary Weft' you have mentioned?"
	Another Remnant steps forward. "The Weft is what we term the mesh of dimensions, energy, and time that form a subset of the universe. A layer, of sorts." He looks thoughtful. "What you probably know as 'Hyperspace' is what we technically call the Secondary Weft. There are a few others we are fairly confident exist, and several that we have hypothesized might exist but we have no means of confirming. Practically, each of these overlaps with the Primary Weft to some extent." His gestures take on an amused tone. "Of course, what we call the Primary Weft is only primary to those of us who live here. For all we know, there may be people living elsewhere that consider their own weft to be the primary one. Nothing says ours is special or the best or anything of the sort. Actually, it has been proposed that we call the Primary Weft the Warp. It is an old weaving term that serves as a reasonable analogy to how the warp and weft interact, and might better reflect its status instead of being labeled 'Primary.'
	"In terms of help, could you go to Caelian? We have sent word ahead, and our engineers are retrieving some of our remaining equipment from the time of the Exodus. We are hoping that it might be of use to help us repair the Shattered Light, or at least understand what happened to it.
	"Before you leave, though, there was some stuff that survived intact we would like to share with you." Behind her five androids emerge from one of the cargo holds, each one carrying a large trunk of equipment.
	"These are known as NDR-114 Androids, and were cutting edge innovations back when the Exodus occurred. Don't expect too much of them. They are not self-aware, sentient, or even particularly advanced artificial intelligences. They are, however, excellent extensions of a ship's self-maintenance systems. As it turns out, a large number of these androids were instrumental in keeping the Shattered Light flying all these years. We have plenty to study, so we thought you might appreciate having a few." She makes a dismissive gesture. "If they end up not being helpful for you, our outfitters will be able to re-assign them to another ship.
	"Embers light your path, Captain <first>." With that, the crowd disperses.
Brilliant Energy
Retrieve a team with their equipment from <destination> to help research the Shattered Light.
Ferry the team and their gear back to <destination>.
From your count at the information desk, you estimate that you need space for 11 people as well as 18 tons of cargo.
On <destination> the spaceport is awash in conversation, and you spot snippets here and there of people talking about the recovery of the Shattered Light. Many are speculating as to what happened to it in the first place, while others are discussing the technical merits of what the research team did to recover it. Details travel quickly, it seems.
	The team you are sent to pick up are waiting next to the information desk. They have a collection of pallets nearby, and a small crowd is gathered around them in animated conversation. They spot you and the crowd start waving their goodbyes as the group pick up their bags and head towards you.
	"Ah, <first>! Thank you for transporting us. We are excited to see the Shattered Light and start studying this mystery you have found." They briskly head to your ship.
The Remnant spend the trip busily discussing what is known so far and exchanging theories, eagerly asking you questions about what you saw and reviewing your sensor records. By the time you reach Viminal, they have a whole collection of theories and have a preliminary plan of what studies they hope to do. When pressed, however, they all acknowledge that their top priority will be documenting the ship. Every scratch, every oddly charged component, every minor modification. "After all," they say, "knowing how it is now is the first step to determining how it arrived here."
	The entire complement of Remnant crowd the windows when you settle into the final approach for the covered valley that houses the Shattered Light. You can see that the Remnant have been busy setting up large equipment towers around it, including several small encampments of tents. As you settle in for a landing, you see a camel team maneuver a sled with a large anti-aircraft battery into position, where it is promptly shrouded in a tent that blends into the rest of the camp.
	Traffic control directs you to a pad near a large door of the Shattered Light. Ruach and a small group of Remnant are gathered around a hologram of the ship, and seem to be co-ordinating teams exploring it. Large mounds of equipment appear to have expanded from the sides of the ship, some of which appears to be functional. As you go through your landing checks, the team thank you for the transportation and begin offloading their equipment.
	"Welcome back, <first>!" signs Ruach from across the pad. "We have made considerable progress already." She appears set to explain what they have discovered.
	"Great, but please spare me the details."
	"You figured out what happened? Great!"
	She looks crestfallen. "Well, we know what the ship thinks happened, anyway. It is likely that what actually happened differs significantly." Her posture takes on a more positive stance. "We have had the opportunity to start querying the onboard systems and piece together a little of the Shattered Light's history. Particularly the logs.
	"As we all know, it was part of the Exodus fleet that entered the Terminus wormhole. Unlike most of the other ships, however, it never emerged from the other side. Fortunately, it had a significantly larger array of instruments than was normal for ships of its type, and it looks like at least some of the databanks survived."
	At this point another Remnant takes up the narrative. "Based on the initial incident logs, it appears that something in the stabilization fields failed during transit. The data is not clear whether the systems failed, or if something in the wormhole fluctuations exceeded the parameters that the systems could handle. In any case, the ship appears to have been shunted laterally from the wormhole in mid-transit.
	"It is unclear what happened after that, but the ship was subject to significant forces including unidentified impacts that caused multiple system failures. The data loses some coherence at this point, but it basically seems to have been semi-permanently stuck out-of-phase with the prime weft until an energy surge destabilized it and it wobbled back into prime coherence. At that point, it started being visible again, and shortly after, you spotted it."
	"Interesting. Well, let me know if I can help."
	"I am curious as to what you will do now."
	"The first step will be to unpack the Shattered Light and set up all its equipment. Taking detailed scans of each piece as we do so, of course." She gestures around at the equipment expanding out of the side of the ship. "As you can see, we have already started the process and found that much of it is operational."
	One of the other Remnant continues. "The Shattered Light carried what amounts to an entire heavy industrial factory. Everything from smelters to welding equipment and everything in between." They smile and their gestures take on a tone of irony. "In fact, the ships we have now are in no small part due to the Shattered Light's absence. Without these capabilities, the choice about whether or not to commit to learning the techniques of those who lived here before us was much easier. If the Shattered Light had arrived on schedule we may well still be building ships out of the traditional materials prevalent at the time."
	"Thank you, Captain. Of course we do not want to keep you waiting, so rest assured that we will contact you if your assistance is needed in the future."
	Taely gestures take a tone of curiosity. "One thing that you could help us with, if you wish, is resources. Right now we do not have any real need to put all this machinery to work, and as such we do not have the resources to spare to get it fully operational. That being said, if ever you would like a replica of the Shattered Light, we could use this equipment to build one."
	Her gestures take on an apologetic tone. "It will not be a perfect replica as we will have to use our own systems for most of the internals, and the resource allotment cost will be significantly higher than it would have been back at the Tycho Crater shipyard on Luna... but if you have the resources and interest, the opportunity is there. The shipyard will have more information for you in a day or two." Her gestures trail off with a sign that indicates vast possibilities.
	"Someday, Captain <first>, much may come from this. But for now, it will be months before we have analyzed everything. Thank you for helping recover a piece of our history, Captain."
Search for the unknown Korath ship
Chilia has asked you to find and conduct an outfit scan of the Korath ship that can carry three 'olofezes, then report back to <destination>. The Remnant believe it will be found in one of the southern Korath systems.
You step out of your airlock to see Prefect Chilia striding towards you. "Captain <first>! I read a report mentioning that you dealt with a trio of 'olofezes out in the Postverta region. Would you be interested in doing some reconnaissance for us? We would like to track down where those came from."
You step out of your airlock to see Prefect Chilia striding towards you. "Captain <first>! I read a report mentioning that you dealt with a trio of 'olofezes patrolling alone near here. Would you be interested in doing some reconnaissance for us? We would like to track down where those came from."
	"Yes, I could do that."
	He signs appreciatively. "We admire your willingness to help." He pulls up a hologram of the Ember Waste, and it shifts to display the systems towards the core. "We are concerned that the Korath may have a new ship that can carry three fighters. Based on the Korath's typical movement patterns, we suspect that - if such a ship exists - it should be somewhere in the nearer Korath systems. We will upload an algorithm to your targeting system to look for ship profiles that have no matches in our database. Please do an outfit scan of whatever ship you find, and report back to me on <destination>."
	He nods respectfully. "Well, thank you for all that you have done for us. I will see who else is available." With that, he heads off into the starport.
In poor lighting, this ship might have passed for a Palavret, but scanning reveals major structural differences. These suggest this is at least a new generation of the model, or perhaps an entirely different design. Time to report this to Chilia.
The algorithm quickly parses the ship signatures present here, and notifies you that one in particular does not match its database: the one identified as the "Ra'puk At 333." This must be the ship that Chilia would like a scan of.
Chilia is waiting for you when you land. Judging by the hologram floating before him, he appears to already be reviewing the data from your scan. As you approach, he pushes it to the side to focus on you. "This is interesting data," he comments. "What are your thoughts, having seen it first hand?"
	"You were right in suspecting that this new ship carries an additional fighter. One more fighter might not change much in combat, but if the Korath are building new warships, they may also be building stronger fighters."
	"An extra fighter bay isn't the only thing this new ship has. It also comes with an extra gun, bigger engines, superior shields and hull, and likely other unseen improvements. Overall it's much more formidable than its predecessor."
	He listens attentively to your account of visiting Kor Zena'i, nodding thoughtfully at various insights.
	"Thank you for investigating this, <first>. I will ensure that our engineers get your data immediately, and brief our patrols to be aware of this increased capacity." His gestures have a tone of anticipation and regret.
	"You are welcome."
	"Are you expecting something?"
	Chilia smiles wistfully. "Do you know that feeling, when the whole world is still and the skies are clear, and yet you know in your bones that a storm is coming?" He continues without waiting for a response. "Well, I have had that feeling for decades, growing ever stronger. And now..." He pauses, drawing a deep breath. "Now, it feels like this is the first scent of rain. The first thing I can actually identify as a solid indicator that a storm is brewing."
	He shakes his head. "But no matter. Planning for the storm is my duty, not yours, and the front is yet to appear.
	"We have allocated you <payment> for the risks undertaken. Please use it wisely. While it is my duty to anticipate threats to us all, it is your duty to ensure you are prepared to face the winds they may bring." He turns and strides away, quickly vanishing into the tunnels beneath the spaceport.
Sympathy For The Korath
Travel to the <waypoints> system to disable a stranded Kas'lor Ik 582. Do not destroy or capture the ship, as it likely has a large civilian population.
You step out of your airlock to find Prefect Chilia waiting for you with a worried look on his face. "Captain <first>, I have a sensitive request for you.
	"Our scouts are reporting a stranded Korath ship in Vaticanus, a Kas'lor Ik 582 to be precise. If it were a typical warship obstructing our operations, we would request you track it down and eliminate it, but because ships of this type tend to be home to a large civilian population, destroying or capturing it outright may instigate a reprisal, especially in that sector.
	"Would you be up for disabling it, so the threat is eliminated while preserving the lives of the innocents on board?" His signs shift from a questioning tone to a confident one. "After you are done we can disarm the ship and fix their jump drive. If they adhere to their typical doctrine they should decide to head back home."
	"Happy to help those in need, even the Korath."
	"I have no intentions of risking my neck for some Korath."
	"I am grateful for your understanding and willingness to help here. Together we can ensure everyone gets home safely."
	He nods in acknowledgment and his gestures take on a staccato phrasing. "I feared my ask was too much. I understand the sentiment. Perhaps I was naive to think such an outcome was possible."
As you enter the system you spot the target ship. You imagine the small town's worth of people inside, many of which are probably children.
The Remnant are puzzled at your aborting of this mission, but they tell you they will send someone else to do this work. They warn you they will not propose any more of the sort to you again.
You find Chilia with a relieved look on his face when you land.
	"These assignments are typically handled by our most trusted teams, as taking on the larger Korath vessels is a sensitive matter. Most of their larger ships are home to large groups of Korath civilians, including children. I must admit there were concerns you might not be those children's best chance, but our fleet was occupied elsewhere at the time. I am glad I was not wrong in my assessment of you." He signs with a content smile on his face.
	"We must be careful not to let ignorance of Korath society result in the unnecessary destruction of similar ships. Now that you have shown you can handle these tasks with the proper finesse, you can expect these to turn up in the task board in the future." Chilia then walks away with a confident pace.
This is an adolescent form of the Iije, having recently consumed quanities of stellar dust, matter, and energy. They are attracted to light in the dim space of the Umbral Reach, and are occasionally seen flying in groups.
This is an adult form of the Iije, having grown enormous from consuming stellar matter over hundreds of thousands of years. They can be seen carrying the smaller Jje around the Umbral Reach, but the exact purpose of this activity is unknown.
While not particularly fast by fighter standards, where the Kaiken lacks in speed it makes up for in durability and firepower; it boasts a significant amount of weapon space and ports for up to three guns, allowing for the use of a trio of Locust Blasters or the option of using a larger Mandible Cannon.
The Sasumata is the chief scout ship of the Bunrodea. While not designed for combat, this stealth transport vessel is still capable of holding its all against some smaller warships; its four fighter bays turn the Sasumata into a force to be reckoned with when its fighters are deployed.
The Tanto freighter was designed as a fast blockade runner. While being lightly armed and armored, the Tanto is incredibly swift for a ship of its size, allowing it to jump into and out of systems before any hostile force can bear its full might down on the small ship.
The Ararebo is one of the Bunrodea's main methods for shipping large volumes of cargo across space, but anyone who would dare to think that this freighter is an easy target would be sorely mistaken. The Ararebo doubles as the Bunrodea's primary support carrier, carrying a squadron of eight fighters that can tear almost any ship to shreds.
The Tekkan is the one ship in the Bunrodean arsenal that favors turrets over forward facing guns. This allows the small and fast vessel to act as the primary means of anti-missile defense for larger Bunrodean ships that are lacking in turret mounts compared to their guns. Tekkans are also able to take advantage of the rarely used but powerful Locust Turrets, packing a considerable amount of damage into a small ship.
The Kunai is the smallest of the Bunrodea's gunships, warships which focus heavily on the power of their forward-facing guns. Lacking any turret mounts and focusing more on turning quickly than traveling fast, the Kunai is highly susceptible to missile weaponry and must rely on other ships in the fleet to carry anti-missile turrets.
The Kama gunship is a formidable warship, capable of carrying up to ten guns as well as having a single turret mount typically equipped with an anti-missile turret. This makes the Kama less susceptible to missile weaponry than its smaller sibling, the Kunai.
The Chigiriki is the largest of the Bunrodea's gunships, boasting an astonishing seventeen gun ports. One of these ports is equipped with the devastating Thorax Cannon, a massive cannon capable of dealing significant damage to any ship that dares get in the Chigiriki's way. Some Chigiriki also double as missile platforms, raining down a walls of missiles so thick on their target that it can blot out the nearest star.
 vo 
 xx 
Erga
Ergu
Jentila
Jentlu
Thshyba
Thshu
Bosuna
Bosunu
Shina
Shinu
talo
An Intriguing Invitation
You have received an invitation, or summons, to the marked system by some mantis-like aliens who seem to have been following you around human space.
After hailing the planet the map pointed you towards, you hear an alien voice respond. Before you can think of what to say, the small device that the aliens threw at you on <origin> responds for you. The voice on the other end says something short, then cuts the feed. It seems like you've been cleared to land.
When you depart your ship, you're startled by a small alien ship uncloaking right in front of you. Two elegant mantis-like creatures step off it, each holding a strange looking weapon pointed directly at you. They have four long insectoid legs and two arms. Although their arms end in what look like hands, they also have strange claw-like features that partially enclose them, extending outward from their forearms to grasp their weapons. You look around to see if there's anyone else witnessing this, but you've landed at <origin>'s main spaceport in the middle of the night, leaving you as the only human in sight.
	The aliens begin speaking to you in a language you don't understand, their words interspersed with clicking noises. As one of them speaks, they sound almost robotic, as if they are speaking through a synthesizer. Taking a closer look, you spot what you can only guess are cybernetic modifications to parts of the alien's body; the alien's throat and one of its eyes look non-organic, as well as the joints of its legs. The other one has no such visible modifications, though.
	"Do you come in peace?"
	"I don't understand a word you're saying."
	"Don't shoot! I'll take you to my leader."
	The aliens look at each other and say a few words. One of them grabs a small device from a belt and throws it on the ground in front of you.
	(Pick it up.)
	(Dodge for cover.)
	You pick up the device and look at it. It springs open in your hand, causing you to drop it. After it falls to the ground, it begins projecting a holographic star map. You recognize some of the systems on the map as those where you fought an alien fleet, made up of ships similar to the one in front of you. A single system within that region is highlighted. The aliens return to their ship, which becomes invisible again, and although you can't see it, you hear it take off and fly away.
	You dodge for cover behind your ship. After a few seconds, you hear a springing sound. When you look back out from behind your ship, the aliens are gone, and the device they threw at you is now projecting a holographic star map. You recognize some of the systems on the map as those where you fought an alien fleet, made up of ships similar to the one in front of you. A single system within that region is highlighted. The alien ship becomes invisible once again, and although you can't see it, you hear it take off and fly away.
As you enter the atmosphere, you're flanked by two large alien ships which guide you to the surface, leading you to a particular landing zone. When you leave your ship, you're met by two aliens that look similar to the ones that startled you on <origin>, including having the same weaponry.
	As you take a moment to look around, you find yourself in the middle of a massive metropolis. Skyscrapers taller than anything you've ever seen in human space cover the horizon, although most of the buildings around you appear far more elegant in architecture. Directly ahead is a large palace-like building with a considerable number of steps leading up to the front doors.
	You take a step forward, but one of the aliens says something while waving its weapon around, and you take the hint that you shouldn't be moving right now. The other says something into a communication device, then sits down on the ground and gestures for you to do the same. You suspect that you might be waiting here for a while.
	(Sit down.)
	(Turn around and re-enter my ship.)
	You reenter your ship, and the aliens don't move to stop you. You decide to turn your ship back on and attempt to take off, but just as you try to activate the repulsor engines, you hear a loud buzzing sound coming from outside. You look out the nearest window, and see that the aliens have moved some sort of vehicle near your ship, buzzing with energy. You attempt to take off, but your ship's repulsor engines aren't moving you anywhere. The vehicle seems like it is deactivating any nearby repulsors.
	(Blast the vehicle with a turret.)
flagship base attribute: turret mounts
	(Leave my ship and sit down with the aliens.)
reputation: Bunrodea
reputation: Bunrodea (Guard)
reputation: Bunrodea (Megasa)
reputation: Bunrodea (Erabu)
	You turn one of your turrets toward the vehicle and fire, then immediately try to pull up. It looks like your shot either destroyed the vehicle or disrupted it enough for you to escape its influence as your ship rapidly rises into the atmosphere. It looks like the aliens didn't take too kindly to your action, though, as you begin seeing ships targeting you on your radar.
	You exit your ship and sit down on the boarding ramp. The aliens that are watching you don't seem to care that you just tried to leave.
	You sit down on the boarding ramp of your ship and gaze at the scenery while you wait.
	After some time, you look up to the palace steps and notice a six-limbed creature unlike the mantis-like aliens watching over you. As it slowly makes its way downward and gets to the last few steps, the aliens guarding you stand to attention. You wonder if this entire time you've just been waiting for this alien to reach the bottom of the stairs.
	The creature approaches you on all six limbs, but stands up on its hind two legs once it is only a few paces away from you. It is rather small, hardly reaching your chin while it stands at full height, with big round eyes and a large, bulbous nose. It extends its four arms outward, revealing the palms of its hands. Except for its face and palms, it is covered in a thin layer of golden brown fur. It begins speaking. You can't understand what it's saying, but it seems to be cycling through various different languages and pausing after each line, as each sentence sounds wildly different from the last. You're suddenly startled when it says perfectly, "Hello."
	"Wait, say that again."
	"Hello," the creature repeats itself. "Hello. Hello. Hello," it continues to say.
	"Can you say anything else?"
	"Hello."
	"Can you say anything else?" it repeats back to you.
	"How do you know my language?" it repeats back to you.
	"Human?" it asks.
	"Yes, I am a human."
	"What even are you?"
	"Human," it says to itself confidently. "Human. Human. Human," it repeats, looking around as if it is searching for something in its mind. "One... hundred years ago. Human," it says.
	"I'm not the first human here?"
	"What do you mean one hundred years ago?"
	"Human visitors, many years ago," it says. "Not important. The Queen desires yours presence." It then says something in a language that the mantis-like aliens understand, and they motion for you to follow as the small alien begins making its way back to the steps of the palace. You have a feeling you're going to dread the next half hour.
	You finally reach the top of the palace stairs completely exhausted, although the aliens with you look entirely unphased.
	The aliens lead you into the palace and through various elegant hallways. The walls are lined with marble statues and paintings that seem to be depicting historical figures and events for this alien race, although you're not allowed to linger long enough to get a good look at any of them.
	You eventually approach a large ornate doorway that the aliens push open, revealing what must be the Queen's throne room. It is a long, narrow room lined with stained glass windows with what you guess is a throne chair where the alien Queen sits. The Queen is part of the mantis-like species and considerably larger in appearance than the ones guarding you.
	The small creature says something to the Queen as you approach, and the Queen responds. The creature turns to you to translate.
bunrodea: erabu rep
bunrodea: guard rep
bunrodea: normal rep
	"I hear that you have attacked one of my Megasa."
	"Your what?"
	"I was only defending myself."
	"I have, and for that I apologize."
	"Okay, and?"
	"I hear that you have attacked one of my civilians."
	"I hear that you have fought a member of my guard."
	"Hey, they deserved it. They attacked me first."
	"I hear that you have attacked one of my Erabu."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen seems to laugh in a strange chittering way. "The Erabu are the aristocrats of my land. Attacking them is a grave offense," the creature translates for the Queen. "What do you say for yourself?"
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen seems to laugh in a strange chittering way. "The Megasa are the lowest of my people, but still my people to defend," the creature translates for the Queen. "What do you say for yourself?"
	"Whoever I attacked, I was only defending myself."
	"Well, then for that I apologize."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen seems to laugh in a strange chittering way. "Yes, my royal guards are rather... eager to defend, and for that I apologize," the creature translates as the Queen speaks. "But would my royal guard truly be doing its duty if it were not defending my lands from unknown threats? Although, perhaps they could be more patient in assessing true threats. I might punish those responsible, but it would seem that you have already dealt with those who have slighted you."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen seems to laugh in a strange chittering way. "Deserved, you say?" the creature translates as the Queen speaks. "Would my royal guard truly be doing its duty if it were not defending my lands from unknown threats? Although, perhaps they could be more patient in assessing true threats. I might punish those responsible, but it would seem that you have already dealt with those who have slighted you."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen steps off of her throne and approaches you. She extends her legs so that she towers over you to at least twice your height. She speaks, and the creature translates. "How flippant you are, to lie like that in front of the highest royalty. You're either extremely brave, or extremely stupid." The Queen turns around and returns to her throne. "I will show mercy, just this once. But you will not be so fortunate the next time."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen steps off of her throne and approaches you. She extends her legs so that she towers over you to at least twice your height. She speaks, and the creature translates. "How flippant you are, to speak like that in front of the highest royalty. You're either extremely brave, or extremely stupid." The Queen turns around and returns to her throne. "I will show mercy, just this once. But you will not be so fortunate the next time."
	As the small creature translates for you, the Queen looks as if she is smiling. "An apology. Such an... unexpected response," the creature continues to translate for the Queen. "Normally, those who have offended the Queen attempt to make excuses for themselves. Your apology is accepted."
	The Queen motions to one of the guards and says something to it that the creature does not translate. She then speaks to you, and the creature translates: "Since you have apologized, you will be allowed to live. My guards have been ordered to leave you be, and you may come and go on a small number of our worlds. But this is only so that you do not cause further trouble, and to allow you to refuel if you are passing through my systems. Your presence will only be tolerated, not welcomed. Now please leave my court."
	The Queen motions to one of the guards and says something to it that the creature does not translate. She then speaks to you, and the creature translates: "Since I have shown you mercy, you will be allowed to live. My guards have been ordered to leave you be, and you may come and go on a small number of our worlds. But this is only so that you do not cause further trouble, and to allow you to refuel if you are passing through my systems. Your presence will only be tolerated, not welcomed. Now please leave my court."
	The Queen motions to one of the guards and says something to it that the creature does not translate. She then speaks to you, and the creature translates: "Since it is my guards that have shown you disrespect, you will be allowed to live. My guards have been ordered to leave you be, and you may come and go on a small number of our worlds. But this is only so that you do not cause further trouble, and to allow you to refuel if you are passing through my systems. Your presence will only be tolerated, not welcomed. Now please leave my court."
	You're escorted out of the throne room and told by the small creature to leave as soon as you reach your ship. You exit the palace, and realize that you must once again face the stairs. You take a deep breath, and prepare yourself for the long journey down.
The Shield Relay Booster is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodean shield relay in order to modify its effectiveness. Boosters increase the shield generation strength of a relay, but at the cost of reduced energy efficiency.
The Shield Relay Limiter is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodean shield relay in order to modify its effectiveness. Limiters increase the energy efficiency of a relay, but at the cost of reducing the strength of its shield generation.
Bunrodean shield relays are impressively efficient; while a similarly sized shield generator from another faction might be capable of providing more shield generation, Bunrodean shield relays provide a modest amount of shield generation for only a small amount of energy.
	Shield relays are able to be upgraded by installing shield boosters or limiters, which alter the performance of the shield relay. Each relay only has a limited number of slots for these upgrades, though.
Some Bunrodean military captains argued that trading shield generation for energy efficiency is a foolish trade, while merchant captains looking to get the most out of their reactors argued that they could be more energy efficient. As such, shield relays are able to be customized to the owner's liking using external components.
The Nanite Enhancer is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodean nanite fabricator in order to modify its effectiveness. Enhancers increase the strength of the hull repair of an fabricator, but at the cost of reduced energy efficiency.
The Nanite Limiter is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodean nanite fabricator in order to modify its effectiveness. Limiters increase the energy and heat efficiency of a fabricator, but at the cost of reducing the strength of its hull repair.
Although Bunrodea ships tend to rely on their shields for defense, some pilots will opt to install a nanite fabricator. These fabricators produce a steady stream of nanites that travel across the hull of the ship and repair any damage that they find.
	Nanite fabricators are able to be upgraded by installing nanite enhancers or limiters, which alter the performance of the fabricator. Each fabricator only has a limited number of slots for these upgrades, though.
The creation of nanite fabricators was spurred on by early contact between the Bunrodea and Korath. The hull-walking microbots of Korath System Cores allowed Korath ships to make repairs without the need of a spaceport, a trait that the Bunrodea favored for use in their scout vessels.
	Nanite fabricators are able to be upgraded by installing nanite enhancers or limiters, which alter the performance of the fabricator. Each fabricator only has a limited number of slots for these upgrades, however.
Bunrodean solar batteries are required for the installation of solar cells, but solar batteries are perfectly capable of going without solar cells. Many captains will install batteries to store energy gained from normal reactors without ever installing solar cells.
Bunrodean solar panels are extremely efficient, and are even capable of powering smaller or less powerful warships. But be warned: while these solar cells can provide significant energy, that is not without the drawback of also generating waste heat that scales with the energy generated, which can be especially hazardous when near bright stars.
	These cells must be installed on the mounting platform that comes with a solar battery to be used.
The Reactor Overclocker is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodea reactor in order to modify its effectiveness. Overclockers increase the strength of the energy generation of a reactor, but at the cost of reduced heat efficiency.
The Reactor Limiter is a component that can be installed into a Bunrodea reactor in order to modify its effectiveness. Limiters increase the heat efficiency of a reactor, but at the cost of reducing the strength of its energy generation.
Bunrodean reactors appear to be named after types of exotic stars that either once were or still are considered theoretical to humanity. A quark star was first discovered by humanity near the Shangri-La system during the 28th century, a star with core temperatures and pressures so extreme that quark matter is produced.
	Bunrodean reactors are able to be upgraded by installing Reactor Overclockers or Limiters, which alter the performance of the reactor. Each reactor only has a limited number of slots for these upgrades, though.
The existence of the exotic stars that this Bunrodean reactor bears the name of is still unknown to humanity. An electroweak star is an exotic star that would be prevented from collapsing by the electroweak force as quarks are converted to leptons in the star's core.
The term "dark star" can have different meanings, but one definition of it is a star whose core is formed around a large amount of dark matter. Such exotic stars are theorized by humanity to have possibly existed among the first generations of stars in the universe, with concentrations of dark matter acting as nucleation sites.
During their wars with the Korath, it was not uncommon for Bunrodean vessels to be boarded by Korath raiders looking for technology and supplies to steal. As such, effective small arms weapons became an essential part of every Bunrodean crew that may need to fight off any boarding parties.
While the Korath favor raw power in their engines, the Bunrodea favor efficiency, opting to make use of engines that produce less thrust for significantly less heat produced.
Although rift engines are extremely heat efficient, their energy requirement is rather high compared to the thrust they produce, even next to terribly inefficient Korath engines.
Even though the energy drawn per unit thrust of rift engines is poorer than that of Korath engines, the overall energy requirement of rift engines is still far lesser by comparison.
Given the lower size and thrust of rift engines, Bunrodean ships aren't well known for their pursuit capabilities. But there are rumors among some Bunrodea of an ancient cache of engines, more powerful than even those of the Korath, that would allow any ship to zip across the stars like a comet and chase down any potential target.
Given that Bunrodean ships are typically focused on making heavy use of their forward facing guns, the Bunrodea favor high turn rates much more than high speeds. As such, rift steering systems are larger than the respective thruster systems of the same size category.
As with many Bunrodean systems, rift engines produce very little heat. This allows their ships to forgo the use of any significant cooling systems, leaving more room for other systems, be they defensive or offensive.
Although the focus on steering over thrust makes Bunrodean ships easy targets to track, the power of their weapons systems would leave anyone foolish to believe that they are sitting ducks.
The largest of the rift steering systems, these engines are what allow the Bunrodea's heavy gunships to bear their many guns toward their unfortunate target.
The Locust Blaster might look small, but its destructive potential for its size is nothing to scoff at. A single blaster is capable of sustaining 1,200 rounds per minute. While each individual projectile from the blaster deals rather insignificant damage, the sheer deluge of projectiles can rip even the largest of ships to shreds in due time.
Although Bunrodean ships typically rely on the power of their forward facing guns and fill any turret mounts with anti-missile systems, they have developed a turret mount for the Locust Blaster. This turret carries three Locust Blasters that all fire at once, resulting in an astonishing 3,600 projectiles per minute being thrown at the target.
The Mandible Cannon is a significant part of the Bunrodean arsenal due to its versatility. Its range exceeds that of smaller weapons, and its size allows it to be used in numbers on most Bunrodean ships. However, the energy draw required to fire is rather significant, particularly for Bunrodean ships that rely on solar cells.
The Thorax Cannon is a massive, slow-firing weapon that few ships can even support, not only because of its size but also because of the energy needed to fire it. It comes with its own energy capacitors to help alleviate the steep energy cost.
Swarm Clips provide a sizeable increase in ammo capacity for Swarm Pods, holding a respectable 200 missiles able to be swiftly loaded into a launcher after its current clip is empty.
Swarm missiles are small, fast moving munitions for the Swarm Pod.
The Swarm Pod proved to be an effective weapon in early conflicts with the Korath by overpowering early Korath anti-missile defenses. But just as the Bunrodea developed technology to combat Korath weaponry, the Korath did the same, prompting them to create their own rapid-fire anti-missile turret that limited the usefulness of the Swarm Pod against some Korath targets.
As the Korath began to saturate systems with mines, the effectiveness of Bunrodean fighters dropped substantially. In response, the Bunrodea developed this rapid-fire anti-missile turret, able to clear sections of a system of Korath mines at blinding speed.
Human engineers who first came into contact with the Quarg were astonished by the sheer efficiency of their technology. The energy density of Quarg batteries is unparalleled, storing nearly a third more energy than the best human batteries while being less than a third the size.
Although humanity is now capable of producing antimatter in relatively significant quantities when compared to a thousand years ago, it is still nothing compared to the Quarg. The Quarg can produce enough antimatter to outfit every ship with an extremely efficient Antimatter Core, producing extreme amounts of energy with surprisingly little waste heat.
These immensely powerful beam weapons are used by Quarg warships to strike fear into the hearts of all who dare oppose them.
Quarg anti-missile defenses can target projectiles from considerable range compared to human technology, ensuring that only the most powerful missiles are capable of even getting near a Quarg ship.
Quarg ships are outfitted with special systems for repelling boarders. Because no one wants to be caught by the Quarg with stolen technology, these systems are pretty much worthless on the open market.
Quarg thrusters are quite powerful for their size and produce very little heat, but at the cost of consuming immense amounts of energy.
	They also have strange capabilities which seem to violate the laws of physics as humanity understands them. Ships with these engines accelerate faster under their own power than one would expect given the thrust of their engines, while also taking less impact from external forces.
Quarg steering engines are as similarly impressive as their thrusters in how much energy they consume. The Quarg don't seem to be bothered by this cost though, given the unmatched strength of their reactors.
The first humans who met the Quarg thought that their technology worked on magic, and many even think so to this day. The mechanism by which this Quarg shield generator works is completely unknown to humanity, and the Quarg aren't interested in giving up their secrets.
Quar
Koor
Flum
Krak
Grok
Merak
shee
trum
rook
All your weapons of evil must be destroyed.
You have only a short time to learn to live together in peace.
You must live in peace... or leave the galaxy.
You are immediately hailed by the Quarg in the system after they complete the scan of your ship.
	"<first> <last>, you are found to be in illegal possession of Quarg equipment. Our devices are precious and ours alone. Though it is regrettable, we must terminate you."
	They close communications before you have a chance to respond, and you look to your radar to see their ships are already approaching, weapons readied...
Your ship loses all power immediately upon touching down on the landing pad. As you walk around to try and find the problem, you pass by your hatch. You find that it is already opened with dozens of Quarg coming in, all clad in elegant full-body armor suits.
	"<first> <last>, you are found to be in illegal possession of Quarg equipment. Our devices are precious and ours alone. Though it is regrettable, we must seize you."
	They don't allow you to get as much as a word out before one of the guards has locked your arms behind your back, completely halting your attempts to fight back with surprisingly little effort. You are brought before something akin to a Quarg jury, where they lecture you for several hours on how dangerous it is for Quarg apparatus to be stolen and used so lightly by others. At the end of it all, they sentence you to life imprisonment.
	You spend the rest of your days in the same cell, which although large and comfortable, quickly proves plain and dull. You're kept in very good health and are well fed, but the Quarg do not allow you to leave the cell and seldom entertain your attempts at striking conversation. You get few visitors and can only wonder what life would've been like had you the chance to live out all these years in freedom, the captain of a starship.
The Skylark is used by the Quarg as a freighter and warship.
The Wardragon is used by the Quarg as a light warship.
The Quarg are tall, thin, inscrutable aliens who evolved on a very small planet and can live comfortably on worlds with atmosphere so thin that a human being could not breathe it. They discovered spaceflight millions of years ago. Many of them live on artificially constructed ringworlds, including one in human space. They live at peace with most sentient species and claim to be in communication with an even older species named the Drak.
The Drak are supposedly the oldest living species in the galaxy. The Quarg say that the Drak act as something like galactic peacekeepers or police, and will intervene if a species invents a weapon so terrible that it could drive that species to extinction.
You had seen pictures and videos of the Quarg before, but this is your first time in a spaceport that is owned by them. The architecture is truly alien: uncomfortably tall ceilings, strange colors, and walls that never quite seem to meet at right angles. The Quarg themselves are equally strange, towering above you, some nearly three meters tall. Their legs bend backwards at the bottom, like a dog walking on its hind feet, and they move gracefully and almost silently.
	Most of the Quarg you see are dressed entirely in shades of gray, or only slight hints of color. Quarg fashion seems to revolve not around color, but texture: coarse and fine woven fabrics, patterns like lizard scales or cobblestones, and occasional decorative fringes of sponge-like material. Their skin is deep gray, sometimes with a hint of green or blue or brown beneath it, with a fine scale pattern like a reptile. But what makes their eyes startling is that they look very human, except that some of them have gold or violet irises instead of green or blue or brown. They have no hair, but many are wearing small cloth caps or hoods.
	One of the Quarg notices you gawking at them and walks over. It squats down on its haunches so that its eyes are level with your own, and says, "Hello." Its voice is deep, sounding like an accordion or the buzz of a beehive blended with the hum of a starship engine.
	Speaking slowly and deliberately, it says, "I think you are new here. Are you what is called a tourist?"
	"No, I'm a merchant captain, I'm here to buy and sell cargo."
	"I see." The Quarg blinks slowly. Its eyelids come from the sides of its eyes, instead of up and down. In an otherwise so human eye, the effect is disconcerting. "Many humans have many questions when they see us, and we the Quarg live for many lifetimes of humans, so it is not burdensome for this one to speak with you."
	"Can you tell me about the Quarg?"
	"Are there other alien species in the galaxy?"
	"It is an honor to speak with you, but I do not have any questions."
	"Many. Most of them young, so much younger than the Quarg. Many foolish. A few wise. Many travel only along the ancient roads between the stars. A few need no roads to travel by. And some reshape the galaxy at will. But the Quarg are like no other, because we have nothing that the others covet."
	"We the Quarg are unique of all the species in the galaxy. Our species began on the moon of a great gas giant, on a planet most small, that gathered about itself very little air. We cannot step many steps on the worlds that the Hai, the Korath, the other species desire. And the worlds like our home, you could not breathe their so thin air, for our lungs are very subtle. And we are an old race, and do not kill for sport or whimsy, so the Drak gave us the gift, that we may go among the other races and settle where we please, and make friends of all, because none dare be our enemy."
	"Who are the Drak?"
	"Why do none dare to be your enemy?"
	"Because we are very strong, and because we speak with the Drak."
	"The Drak are the eldest living. Not the firstborn, for they are long gone, but the eldest living, and yet they are far younger than the stars. They tend and cultivate the pathways between the stars, and prune away the paths that any species could travel to make war against another. And they hold the secret of travel beyond those pathways, and give the secret only to a worthy few, so that peace may prevail." It taps its chest with one hand, signaling that the Quarg are among those few.
	"Not that the Drak are strangers to war. Planets and moons and even stars were consumed in their wars and are no more. But then they learned wisdom, and have fought no more wars, many millions of human years. They live nearby, but they keep to themselves, and intervene in the affairs of other races only to prevent their destruction or the use of obscene technologies of war."
	"We humans have used some rather destructive weapons against each other, and no alien species ever stepped in to put a stop to it."
	"Well, I hope we never do anything bad enough to force them to intervene."
	"You have done what? Awakened the atom? There are weapons far worse than that. Consuming planets. Snuffing out stars. Tearing the flesh of space and time itself. Weapons of chaos I pray your reckless race cannot yet even conceive of. These things will attract the attention of the Drak, because they nearly destroyed this galaxy once, and must not be allowed to do so again."
	"Well, if there are technologies that dangerous out there, I hope the Drak do continue to succeed in keeping them from being used."
	"I hope so too, human." The Quarg stands up, towering over you once again. "As long as you are a seeker of peace, you are most welcome on our worlds at any time." It bows to you. You are not sure if that is a Quarg gesture too, or if it is simply imitating a human custom, but you bow in return, and the Quarg walks quietly away.
In your past experience, you've never seen the Quarg move with anything approaching haste or excitement, but when you land on this station a group of them run up to you, moving faster than you thought they were able to. For a minute or two they just gawk at you and talk amongst themselves in their own language; you think you recognize the word "Humani," and perhaps, "Eartha."
	Finally a Quarg appears who speaks your language, or at least is willing to try. It says, "Salutations, astonishing sojourner. Whither came you, and wherefore visit you us here in the unquiet graveyard of the Korathi?"
	"I'm just here to explore. Can you tell me more about the Korath?"
	"I came here to learn what happened to the Korath."
	"Ah, the unwise Korath," it says. "Once a mighty empire, now sadly splintered and diminished. Their own thinking war machines, now breeding with abandon and inimical to all, hunt the survivors. And of them some, too, were exiled for their great crimes."
	"What crimes did they commit?"
	"What do you mean, 'thinking war machines'?"
	"Robotic starships, and autonomous factories to create them. Though now directed by no living being, they yet reproduce and wage against each other senseless war. Ware their ships should you wander north and east of here, for they wield weapons diverse and strange, and bring you can we no succor within the bourne of their space."
	"You mentioned 'crimes.' What crimes did they commit?"
	"Of that we shall not speak, lest awaken in you we the desire to in their footsteps follow. But you may observe the wreckage of their abominations and take warning."
	"You mentioned 'thinking war machines.' What are those?"
	You are interrupted as one of the Korath who inhabit this ringworld walks by, and the Quarg says, "Friend Korath, meet the human."
	"<first> <last>," you say, holding out a hand automatically. The Korath does not shake your hand, but instead greets you by holding up both hands, palms toward you. It says something in its own language, then hurries away.
	The Quarg says to you, "One faction among the Korathi sought peace. 'Korath Efreti,' they name themselves, which means 'Korath Friends.' They are under our protection and intend you no harm. But, they have not your language; here humans are rare. Another question have you?"
	"Will the friendly Korath let me purchase their technology?"
	"Why don't you destroy the robots, if they're such a threat?"
	"No, but I'm glad to meet you."
	"Visit their worlds," says the Quarg. "Though they learn not your words, you are clever and may speak as does one without words, by pointing at things." You thank it for its time, and the crowd of Quarg that has been gawking at you slowly disperses.
	It clicks its teeth together, which might be the Quarg equivalent of laughter. "It was hoped that one faction of robots would destroy the other, and leave for us less work to do, but they are sadly too evenly matched. Instead we merely restrain them from expanding, as one isolates a fire one cannot extinguish and for it to burn out waits." You thank it for its time, and the crowd of Quarg that has been gawking at you slowly disperses.
Deploy Quarg Scanners
Head to each of the marked systems to deploy the Quarg scanning satellites, then head to <destination> to collect your payment.
A Quarg slowly makes its way to you when it notices you in the spaceport. "Greetings, human friend. Would you happen to have the time to listen to a proposal? We are looking for a pilot willing to help us deploy some scanning satellites."
	"Sure, where am I deploying them?"
	"What are the satellites for?"
	"I don't have the time, no."
	"To help humans in the other end of this region, the South, be better prepared against incoming attacks, and help them keep track of ships that pass by their systems."
	"I'd like to help with that then. Where am I deploying them?"
	"Help? Why do you want to help people there all of a sudden?"
	"I am actually headed to a different part of the galaxy now, sorry."
	"Why?" It pauses for a second. "Surely you have seen the foolish thugs that plague this whole region. We can deal with them here, but we do not usually travel far. To promote peace all around, without even more needless slaughter, providing some measures to deter further attacks is but a courtesy."
	"To <waypoints>. Once you are done, return here and you will receive <payment>."
	As soon as you arrive at your ship, you find various Quarg with loaderbots, putting the four satellites inside your ship's cargo hold. The satellites are shaped like triangular pyramids, with each point of the main pyramid being tipped with another, smaller triangular pyramid. You can't quite make it out from this distance, but you wonder if the smaller pyramids are also tipped with even smaller pyramids. Each of the devices is roughly half your size, but probably weigh a lot more than you.
You open your cargo hold, and let a Quarg scanner drift out to the void.
Looking at the former slave-colony planet here as you deploy their scanner, you wonder if the Quarg heard about Poisonwood's history, and that's why they decided to help with surveillance.
You set a Quarg scanner free, and let it leave your ship.
Although those that live on the planet here don't seem to mind the occasional pirates demanding tribute, maybe they will come to appreciate the reduced pirate presence here, assuming the Quarg scanner really does help with that.
You land to find a Quarg waiting right at the docks. It hands you <payment>, and thanks you for your help.
Human Construction Materials
Head to <stopovers> to pick up <cargo>, then bring it all to <destination>, where the Quarg are preparing to open the first section of their ringworld for human visit.
In the spaceport, a group of Quarg is talking to dozens of human captains. Some nod and head right back to their ships, while a few others remain and appear to discuss a bit more with the Quarg.
	(Join them to see what's going on.)
	You join the group, and one of the Quarg diverts its attention to you, while the others continue speaking with the human merchants.
	"Would you also be someone willing to provide us a cargo service, Captain?" it asks, all the while checking a data pad, which seems to be related to the ships docked here. "Not many of you humans in this region have the cargo space required, much less proper defenses for cargo convoys. We are willing to pay adequately for whoever meets the criteria and is willing to help us."
	"Are those other Captains also doing this? What do you need so much cargo for?"
	"I'm not looking for any more cargo jobs right now, sorry."
	"Many have agreed to help us already, but we still need many more. Those that have agreed to help are headed all to different portions of human space, to safely bring us the materials we have ordered.
	"Our ringworld, under construction around the star of <system>, is to have a special open section for humans to visit soon. We wish to make the internal style and decoration of that section closer to human standards, so we are asking every capable captain to help. You are one such captain, are you willing to help us?"
	"Alright, I'm interested. Where should I go to pick up the cargo?"
	"Sorry, I'm not looking for any cargo job right now, I was just curious."
	It fiddles with the data pad a bit more, then says, "You are to pick up <cargo> on <stopovers>, then deliver that cargo to <destination>. You will be paid <payment> for the service. Be well, human."
	It gestures a bow to you, then leaves to speak with another merchant captain that got curious as well.
The <cargo> is loaded into your ship under strict supervision, each crate carefully accounted for.
Much like your own ship, several other human freighters and convoys are arriving, and the cargo being meticulously checked by the Quarg, as they use their own machinery to unload what must be tens of thousands of tons from all the ships.
	About halfway through the unload of your own cargo, a Quarg comes up to you and hands you <payment>.
You've met the Coalition, and the Heliarchs that rule their space from within the ringworlds the Quarg built there who claim that they "defeated the Quarg oppressors." Would you like to look for some Quarg here and ask for their side of the story?
	You stop the first Quarg that passes by you, and ask if they could tell their side of the story about the Coalition.
	"Ah, so you have encountered the foolish Coalition," it begins. "They once were three promising species, before they succumbed to the unwise desire for usurpation of the great deeds of others.
	"Not that all of them are petty thieves, but sadly the civilization they have become is now ruled by a fanatical military, as I am sure you have seen, having spoken with those wretched Heliarchs."
	"Is it true that they defeated you?"
	"Is it true what they told me? That you oppressed them and hindered their development?"
	It clicks its teeth together for a moment, and frowns a bit. "Do not underestimate us, human. We are numerous, and we are strong." It pauses for a moment, with a blank expression on its face, as if trying to remember something. "We just know better than to slaughter billions for the sake of maintaining our position."
	"Of course not. Have you seen us do such things with humanity? Or with any other alien species you might have reached in your travels with a jump drive? The Heliarchs, like any other fanatical military, merely fabricated an excuse to justify attacking us."
	Before you can ask it anything else, the Quarg bids you farewell, and walks away.
"Are you what is called a 'tourist'?"
Are you
a merchant
a merchant captain
a travelling merchant
a captain
People
of peace
of law
of trade
appreciated
on Quarg worlds
on all Quarg worlds
The Quarg language is so different from ours
most people
ordinary people
could never
wouldn't be able to
would never
learn it
understand it
speak it
I've been studying
I've studied
I've been learning
the Quarg language
for a decade
for years
for the most part of my career
all my life
but I still can't pronounce their words
but I've yet to grasp the logic behind it
writing
working on
a study
an analysis
of the Quarg language
mainly focusing on the 
pronunciation
nouns
verbs
adjectives
words
pronouns
These Quarg look so strange I shiver every time I see one.
This world has the cleanest public toilets I have ever seen.
I absolutely love the look of these buildings. I'm going to decorate my 
house
living room
apartment
kitchen
bedroom
 after them.
Have you seen
one of those
one of their
ringworlds
 from up close
I can't even comprehend their extent.
Tarazed engineer
Quarg technology is so ahead of us we probably couldn't build their ships even if they gave us the plans.
I'm working on a new spaceship for the Tarazed Corporation. Every once in a while I come here to take some inspiration from these magnificent designs.
Ship captain
The Quarg have impressive ships, but I bet my 
Behemoth
Hauler III
Bactrian
 can carry twice the cargo their ships ever could.
The Quarg are an unwarlike species, but I've heard they fought battles against 
an alien race
some insectoid aliens
in the past
a long time ago
The Quarg go out of their way to keep piracy at bay in these systems. 
I could fly a fleet of 
Star Barges
Shuttles
Heavy Shuttles
 around here!
The Quarg are 
a peaceful race
not violent
but I've seen their weapons at work: they 
took out
disabled
a Leviathan pirate
a pirate ship
a marauder ship
in a matter of seconds
in a few seconds
without taking a single hit
Read my new article:
Read my new article!
Read this!
Look at my new article!
Look at this!
Things Tarazed Corporation Stole from the Quarg!
Things the Quarg helped Tarazed Corporation With!
Secrets Humanity Learned from the Quarg!
University student
I'm on a
study tour
field trip
study visit
with my
class
teacher
tutor
school
They taught me all about
I learned everything about
the ringworlds, but
the Quarg, but
seeing them up close is quite different
I didn't realize how big they are
seeing their technology still fascinates me
the sheer scale of their buildings is astonishing
Korath merchant
Kor Efret merchant
Korath vendor
Kor Efret vendor
A Korath waves you over to a stand filled with a variety of foods. It wants you to buy something, but nothing looks particularly appetizing.
You spend some time inspecting the wares of a street vendor selling small pieces of... some sort of technology. You have no idea what any of it is.
A merchant cries out in its own language to passerby while gesturing to a strange outfit you've never seen before. Some stop to look, but most ignore it.
One Korath seems to be auctioning off a strange device to a small crowd.
You enter an unusually busy building and are greeted by a Korath who seems to work there. It's filled with monitors displaying natural flora and fauna. The Korath in here are captivated by them.
Korath worker
Kor Efret worker
The Korath attaching fuel cables to your ship stops and holds both its hands up with its palms toward you when it notices you watching.
Two of the workers nearby are speaking to each other while gesturing to your ship. It looks like they aren't used to visitors here.
A worker carries a crate containing several tools past you to several other Korath. They seem to be repairing an outfit - or maybe it's an air conditioning unit. You can't really tell.
A Korath emerges from a nearby dilapidated building and begins sealing every possible entrance - windows, doors, large cracks - shut. It moves with such efficiency that you're sure it's done this plenty of times before.
Korath local
Kor Efret local
Kor Efret
A ball chased by a young Korath rolls up to your feet. You pick it up, and the youth pauses and stares at you for a moment before gesturing in thanks and accepting the ball. It runs back to a grown Korath who holds both its hands up with palms toward you.
A local Korath gestures toward a building you've never been inside before. Out of curiosity, you poke your head inside to see the reptilian aliens conversing and sharing drinks: it's a bar. Some things never change, no matter where you are in the galaxy.
You pass by one of the abandoned buildings and hear a door open and close rapidly behind you. You turn back and see a Korath dressed in rags quickly walking the other direction.
Korath scientist
Kor Efret scientist
Korath technologist
Kor Efret technologist
A Kor Efret pushes a cart filled with strange chemicals and bits of technology past you.
A Korath walks through the spaceport reading numbers off a device and inputting them onto another one. It looks like it's taking samples of the air quality.
There's a Korath nearby precariously balancing several boxes above its head. You can't tell if it's a street performer or just transporting the crates.
A Kor Efret near your ship is speaking with a worker, gradually increasing its volume until it's doing some strange mix of shouting and hissing. Suddenly, it turns and stalks away with its chest puffed out.
A Korath is studying you intently from a distance. You guess it's never seen a human face to face before.
A local greets you by holding its hands up with its palms facing toward you.
Wanderer trader
The Kor Efret worlds are littered with [stark, serious] environmental problems. I have seen nothing of this [magnitude, scale] before.
The Kor Efreti are a very [prideful, honorable] people. I offered a favor to one free of charge, and it seemed insulted.
This planet must undergo significant [renovation, changes] before progress can be made. It will take a long time for it to be fully [restored, reborn].
I [received, accepted] a job from a terminal earlier. The Kor Efreti are indeed putting them to good use.
It is [disheartening, upsetting] to see how damaged this world is, but I take comfort knowing we will work to [restore, rebirth] it.
After the Korath were exiled from their homelands, efficient resource collection became a priority. World-ships were too precious to risk on dangerous forays, and raiders lacked the cargo capacity. The Rano'erek-class Asteroid Dredging Ship, named for a respected civilian politician and economist, was born as an answer to this problem.
	Featuring an abundance of cargo and passenger space in addition to their formidable defensive armament, these bulky ships can also offer potent support for frontline Palavrets.
Successive raider designs have been the Korath warship of choice for plundering neighboring species for generations. Named for a celebrated captain who gave her life to ensure her crippled vessel made it back to port with its desperately needed cargo of stolen fish, the Palavret-Class Raiding Ship continues that grim tradition.
	Like all Exile ships, the Palavret has been adapted to house as many Korath as possible, as comfortably as possible, inflating its size beyond similarly armed warships. The spaceborne construction techniques employed allow for the ship's easy replacement, facilitating continued raids of nearby systems.
The venerable Palavret has been a mainstay of the Korath raiding fleet, elements of its design dating back from before the era of shortages and desperation caused by a life in exile. Over forty generations of raiders have terrorised neighboring systems over the centuries.
	Constant warfare against surrounding aliens has been building pressure on Korath shipyards to recover some of their ancient prowess. Now, with a fresh industrial network to draw upon, the Korath have created a new raider to deal with modern targets, and the Tubfalet-Class Raiding Ship is named for an admiral who dealt with such enemies. Despite extensive injuries, he remained on his flag bridge during a Remnant attack, leading his squadron to victory.
While perhaps, at first, seeming like a super-sized 'olofez-Class Carried Chaser, the 'nra'ret-Class Chaser is not only the first truly unique warship design the Exiles have fielded since the Exodus, but also the first built solely for combat instead of needing to double as a habitat or supply ship. Its size and non-modular nature also means it must be constructed wholesale at the largest Korath facilities, something that, until recently, was generally reserved for the likes of the massive Ik'atilajej and the Korsmanath A'awoj.
	The 'nra'ret-Class Chaser, named in honor of a brilliant weapons engineer who took their own life to avoid having their secrets captured by a hostile alien force, provides the Exiles with a fast and powerful patrol striker both in support of large raiding fleets and as independent units. To this end, it is armed with numerous missile ports designed to rain fire on enemies from afar. It also carries a pair of langrage heavers for sustained operations, and two Fire-Lances for emergency use in close quarters.
The 'olofez-Class Carried Chaser, named for a renowned artist who painted their visions of ancient hunts, is a fighter carried by most Exile capital ships.
These small probes are primarily deployed by larger Korath Exile ships to scan for intruders, evaluate foreign vessels, and analyze system bodies. Their secondary function is to retrieve small debris and deactivated microbots spread across Korath space which have fallen off their ships, been fired from Shunt-Strikes, or were even deliberately deployed. Although the data observed and logged by an individual microbot is extremely limited, processing them in bulk yields a valuable gestalt of information. More importantly, the microbots can be recycled for use afterwards.
	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay.
Although fierce in battle and highly adaptable, Korath do not easily recover from injury. Without the aid of a surgeon or more equipment than fits into a standard escape pod, a stranded, injured Korath faces poor odds of survival. Therefore, Korath who leave their home territory have placed great importance on the construction of hospital ships that can quickly locate, recover, and treat the survivors of wrecked ships.
	The Rai'alorej-Class Refuge, named for a pioneer in the field of microbot-assisted surgery, is thoroughly appointed with lifeform scanners, locator beacon receivers, ambulances, and search-and-rescue teams. Once onboard, crash victims are greeted with the finest hospital facilities, microbot treatments, and stores of medicine the Exiles have at hand. Even incubators and nurseries are available to treat the young who grow up aboard ship.
For most of their manufacturing needs, the Korath rely, as even some terrestrial species do, upon their space station and asteroid infrastructure. Due to their spacebound existence, however, the acceptability for failure and downtime is slim to nonexistent. Should equipment aboard a station or a world-ship fail, the Ikatila'ej, named for an inventor famously proficient in a variety of fields, is called in to provide critical support. Its microbot-run factory produces basic living supplies, machine parts, and systems cores, and may assist in continuing stalled production.
	When not assisting with damaged ships and stations, or replenishing its own stores, the Ikatila'ej serves as an all-in-one recycling, mining, refining, and factory ship, using its microbot-powered grinder to rapidly turn asteroids and garbage into whatever products the civilian economic planning committees have determined to be in the most dire need.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis. This simple ship has been adapted for hauling materials between refinery and factory stations.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis. This deceptively spindly ship bristles with weapon emplacements for heavy raiding or defending other vessels.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis. This relatively streamlined ship has been adapted to collect, refine, and transport hyperspace fuel.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis. This bulbous ship has been adapted to carry passengers between stations, or boarding parties into enemy strongholds.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis. This many-lobed ship has been adapted to carry fighters into large-scale raids, or mining craft into asteroid belts. Its radial arrangements of hangars allows fighters a maximum variety of safe approach patterns in combat.
Originally designed as a luxury habitat for those wealthy enough to escape living on the polluted surface of Korath worlds, when the Korath were exiled, it was into these gargantuan 'world-ships' they first crammed themselves into and fled to the core on. Nostalgically, the class was then renamed after the devastated and now forbidden Korath homeworld.
	Since the introduction of purpose-built city ships, these ancient vessels have mostly been decommissioned, turned into stations, or reconfigured into smaller, specialized vessels. Yet a few still ply the starlanes, crewed by those too restless to live on stations yet not bold enough to go on raids.
Korsmanath A'awojs, named in memory of the Korath home system, are massive nomadic habitats that hold much of their remaining population. True flying cities, they could be self-contained miniature worlds were it not for their heavy defensive armament and reliance on unsustainable materials, methods, and sources of power.
	Commission of new Korsmanath A'awojs is a resource-demanding, labor-intensive, painstaking process fraught with political intrigue. Navarchs fight with the civilian government for resources and yard time they would rather devote to building raiding and defensive fleets, civilians vie with each other for a place on the next ship, and planning committees argue with engineers over what methods and technologies to use. This leads to construction delays, corner-cutting, and over-militarization of the design at best, and violent feuds at worst.
The largest of Korath production vessels are derived from a common and ancient chassis, including this large Efreti vessel. Facing very different challenges, and taking some inspiration from their Quarg protectors, the Efreti descendant of the "World-Ships" of old is lighter, faster, and more efficient, but less powerful than its Exile counterparts.
Although they do not effectively provide for their own defense, the Efreti remain responsible for the day-to-day needs of civilian and cargo transportation. While not as bulky or powerful as other Korath designs, this freighter is much faster at making runs back and forth between the Efreti's handful of remaining planets, while still holding enough defensive loadout to ward off the odd Mereti drone that slips past the Quarg.
A recent design, this Efreti multi-role vessel is found taking up many jobs previously relegated to a now scrapped fleet of early-model raiders. While some are used primarily for passenger transport, others are used in local mining to satiate the Efreti's perpetual demand for ores. Incorporating Quarg-inspired structural elements, its light frame allows it to complete tasks more nimbly than any other independent Korath ship.
The largest and deadliest of the Kor Sestor robotic warships, a single one of these battlecruisers can hold its own against an entire fleet of lesser ships.
The Kor Sestor war fleets rely heavily on small, powerful fighters and drones. This ship can carry up to ten of their drones, clamped to the exterior of its hull.
This carrier is equipped with docking clamps for up to nine fighters. When loaded with a full complement of the powerful Kor Sestor robotic fighters, it is a formidable opponent.
The TF109 is designed almost solely for the purpose of carrying a fleet of Kor Sestor fighters and drones. Without them to serve as a protective screen, the ship itself is relatively helpless.
Although this is the smallest Kor Sestor ship other than their fighters, it is larger than most human capital ships and considerably more powerful.
At the peak of their recent civil war, the Kor Sestor faction developed these automated attack drones, easy to manufacture and encased in an ultra-dense hull that can absorb a significant amount of damage.
Because it is piloted by a computer and has no need for a cockpit or life support systems, the FS27 fighter is able to carry far more weaponry than any comparable human ship.
The primary role of the smallest Kor Mereti drones is asteroid mining, but their lasers can also be employed as offensive weapons when necessary.
The Kor Mereti war drones are constructed in a modular fashion, which allows them to grow over time as more materials become available. This one is recently built, and relatively small.
The Kor Mereti built their drones to mimic life: capable of growth and development throughout their life cycles. Their automated factories can convert the drones from one configuration to another by adding or removing modules.
This medium-sized drone serves the Kor Mereti fleets in much the same way as a human Frigate, but in terms of total firepower it is far beyond anything humans have constructed.
As Kor Mereti drones continue to grow and develop into their final form, they split down the middle. At the same time, their shielding and weaponry continue to become stronger.
There is a saying among the Quarg that every species which insists on studying war will eventually construct a weapon that outlives its creators. For the Korath, their war drones have very nearly done so.
This is the final state in the evolution of a Kor Mereti war drone: a perfect ring, with incredibly powerful shields and turrets firing in every direction.
A few of the Korath who inhabit this station greet you when you land, holding up both hands with their palms toward you. One of them says something that sounds like, "Humani efreti, naskoor amasavarkta." It's clear that none of them speak your language, but they seem friendly and willing to trade with you.
A few of the Korath in this spaceport greet you when you land, holding up both hands with their palms toward you. One of them says something that sounds like, "Humani efreti, naskoor amasavarkta." It's clear that none of them speak your language, but they seem friendly and willing to trade with you.
The Korath are reptilian, bipedal aliens whose territory is almost entirely in ruins: cities destroyed and entire planets scarred by what appears to have been a vicious civil war. Several factions of Korath survive. The "Kor Efreti" live in the shelter of a Quarg ringworld and are on peaceful terms with the Quarg. Other Korath, living as exiles near the galactic core, have been raiding human worlds to steal food and supplies. And deeper in Korath space, two massive armies of automated war drones, known as the Kor Mereti and the Kor Sestor, are locked in an unending struggle. They attack any visitors to their region of space, including the Quarg.
Take <cargo> from the Wanderers to the Kor Efreti on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
As you're exploring the spaceport, a Wanderer you've not met waves you down. It says, "You are Captain <last>, correct?"
	"Yes, that's me."
	"The one and only."
	"I am [relieved, happy] to see you, Captain. We have heard of your assistance in our migration here, and I [believe, assume] you have spent some time on Korath worlds. Would you be interested in taking <tons> of [supplies, aid] to <planet>? I can offer you <payment>."
	"I can do that. Load it up, and I'll be ready to leave."
	"Only <payment>? That's an unusually low payment for the amount of cargo I'll be carrying."
	"What exactly would I be transporting?"
	"Sorry, but I'm too busy at the moment to take on another job."
	"As I am sure you are aware, <planet> is cold - uncomfortably so for most species. Based on our [research, information], the planet is experiencing an accelerated [descent, transition] into an ice age. The Kor Efreti have no effective means of stopping this, and their [pride, honor] means they will not accept our terraforming assistance unless they have no other options. They will, however, pay us for equipment to offset this [descent, transition]. Your [supplies, aid] would include warmer clothing, greenhouse building material, [insulation, shelter], and other technology for the Korath to use. The payment, while [unfortunately, sadly] low, is all the Korath were able to offer.
	"I was originally going to make the journey myself, but my ship has encountered [errors, complications] due to a faulty component. I need someone to go in my place."
	"I'd be happy to, especially since it's for a good cause. You're welcome to load it up onto my ship."
	The Wanderer shudders slightly, almost like it had hoped you wouldn't ask that. "Well... Yes, it is low. The rest of the Kor Efreti's payment was used to [purchase, acquire] the supplies, and it seemed they could not afford to pay much more than they already had. Given their situation, we found it [reasonable, justifiable] to accept the lower payment, as the cargo is a [collection, menagerie] of equipment to help with the cooling climate on <planet>, and without it the Kor Efreti might... [perish? expire?]."
	"I understand, and the money isn't a huge problem. I was just curious. Load it up onto my ship, and I'll be ready to go."
	"Oh. Well, I'll make an exception too. Load it up, and I'll head out."
	"Sorry, but I can't make that trip for only <payment>. You'll have to find someone else."
	The Wanderer deflates a little when it hears your response. "Oh. I understand. Thank you for your time, Captain <last>," it says, then it wanders off to look for another pilot.
	The Wanderer is happy to hear your response. "Wonderful! I will ensure the supplies are loaded onto your ship [immediately, quickly]. Thank you, Captain." It hurries off to a group of Wanderers nearby and starts barking orders. The group breaks up, and within minutes they're at your ship loading the supplies.
When you arrive on <planet>, a group of Korath is waiting to unload the cargo. You try and imitate their gesture of greeting, holding your hands up with your palms toward the group. They look surprised but hiss approvingly.
	Soon, all the supplies are off of your ship. The Korath give you a gesture of appreciation, then they begin unpacking it right in the middle of the spaceport. Already, a crowd has begun to gather around the equipment. It looks like it will be put to good use here. When you return to your ship, you see the Wanderer who offered you the job has transferred you your payment of <payment>.
Korath to <planet>
A Korath family of <bunks> has paid you <payment> to take them to the Quarg ringworld of <destination>.
The smog is so thick on Laki Nemparu that even the brightest hours of the day feel like evening to you. Everything here is so dirty that most of the Korath look a few shades darker than those of other planets. Within minutes, a small layer of soot clings to your skin as well.
	As you observe your surroundings, a Kor Efret approaches you followed by two others, one likely a child based on its size and the other hunched over a cane it uses for support - probably elderly. The one in front speaks in the Korath language and quickly realizes you don't understand it at all. The Kor Efret pauses to take a deep breath, then erupts into a coughing fit as they inhale far too much smog. It's almost a full minute before they recover.
	The Korath points up to the sky and says, "<planet>, <planet>," while gesturing to the two Korath with them. They press 500 credits into your hands and continue to mutter in the Korath language. <planet> is the name of the Quarg ringworld in Korath space. They must want transportation to it. 500 credits is shockingly low for any transport job, but based on their appearance they can't afford to pay you any more. Do you want to take them to <planet>?
	(Yes, and give their credits back to them.)
	You pocket the credits and gesture for them to follow to your ship. When the Korath realizes you've agreed, they sigh in relief and rapidly gesture in gratitude. You show them to their bunks... and the shower.
	The Korath's shoulders slump when you hand back the credits, but their disappointment turns to surprise when you gesture to your ship. When they realize you're trying to refuse the money, they puff their chest out and push the credits into your hands again. They won't take no for an answer, so you pocket the credits and take them to your ship. You show them to their bunks... and the shower.
	You give the credits back to the Korath, and their shoulders slump. You watch the trio wander off until they're no longer visible through the thick smog. You can't help but feel a little bad.
You enjoy the new company on your ship. The child has taught you a game where you take turns throwing a ball against the wall. You spend an hour or two playing with them in the cargo hold.
	When you arrive, you decide to accompany the family into the spaceport. Waiting near the docking bay are two more Korath, one an adult and the other elderly, and the three you've transported rush to meet them. After the happy reunion has died down, the Korath who had originally asked you for transportation turns to a nearby Quarg and says something. The Quarg responds and then turns to you.
	"This fellow pridefulest has claimed he regarded my indebted translation with reverence and asks my usage of it be preferred. I am inclined to acquiesce his request happyifully." This Quarg does not seem to have an especially strong grasp of your language, but you should be able to more or less gather what is being said. "The comrade says, 'I disproportionately thank you for reuniting my familial, in fateful service to our camaraderie.' He additionally supplants there was no method in which this gaggle would vicinitied in which absenced your presence. That is all."
	"Tell him it's no problem at all."
	"Tell him he has a wonderful family, and I was glad to help."
	The Quarg nods and turns to translate. The Korath responds while holding his palms toward you and moving them in a wide circular motion. "This is indicating of thankfulness of wholesomest measure. He thanks you for your fortunate words and wishes you kind travels," the Quarg says. You acknowledge the response, thank the Quarg for its (rough) translation services, and return to your ship.
Livestock to <planet>
Transport <bunks> Korath farmers and their <cargo> to <destination>. They've paid you part of your agreed 10,000 credits already.
A Kor Efret wearing several layers made of a wool-like fabric approaches you. It raises both its palms toward you, then it gestures for you to follow into an alley. You don't think it poses any threat, but it can't hurt to be cautious.
	(Follow into the alleyway.)
	(Play it safe and leave.)
	The Korath weaves through the buildings, heading deeper into an abandoned section of the city. The Korath turns a corner, and as a cold wind rushes over you, an alarmingly loud bleating noise emanates from around the corner.
	(Turn the corner.)
	(Turn around and try to run back to the spaceport.)
	You hear the shuffling of feet behind you and turn around. Three towering Korath wearing similar heavy clothing have stepped out of a nearby doorway and are making their way toward you. The bleating noise returns, and you turn again, only to see the original Kor Efret has returned from around the corner. Whatever chance you had of getting out of this is gone now.
	The one in front turns back to where it came from, and the Korath behind you hisses and gestures forward. It looks like you should follow. You brace yourself and turn the corner to see... animals?
	The rusting buildings have given way to a massive abandoned plaza, and the entire space is taken up by a mix of large livestock and supplies. They remind you of sheep, but they're around five times larger, have six legs, and come in a variety of brown-black colors. Each has a full coat of fur and an additional blanket made of their own wool-like fabric on them. It's the same material these Korath are wearing. Even with their extra blanket, the "sheep" are huddled in small groups and look uncomfortably cold. They occasionally bleat loudly whenever a cold wind rushes through the plaza. Fortunately for you, these Kor Efreti look to be farmers, not muggers. This must have been the only place near the spaceport where they could keep their entire herd together.
	The one who led you here, who also seems to be the leader, gestures for you to come over to it. It has opened a paper map - a rare sight in the era of interstellar travel. When you take a look, you realize it's not of the local area, but space; it seems to show the surroundings systems. The Korath points to one, pauses and gestures broadly at the mix of livestock and supplies, then draws its finger to another system and says something that sounds roughly like <planet>. "<planet>?" you confirm, and the Korath hisses in approval. It looks like they want transportation there. You wager the livestock and supplies will take up roughly <tons>, and there are <bunks> Korath farmers in the group.
	It pulls a stack of 200 credits from its pocket and sets it on the ground before drawing a circle around it with a piece of chalk. It then draws four more, makes a large circle around the five total smaller ones, then draws nine additional large circles. Your best guess is it's offering 10,000 credits for their transport.
	(Agree to take them.)
	(Decline the job.)
	You indicate your agreement by pointing to <planet> on the map and gesturing to yourself. Once it understands you've agreed, the Korath holds its palms toward you and moves them in a circular motion. You lead one to your ship while the rest stay behind to prepare the animals. When you arrive, it immediately goes to work spreading tarps over the floor and scattering a type of straw over them. After some time, you notice one of the "sheep" emerge from an alleyway led by a farmer that had stayed behind. Behind it is another animal, then another. The line of livestock, interspersed with the farmers keeping things moving, slowly makes it way into your hangar over the next hour.
	As they enter your climate-controlled ship, the farmers take the hefty, wool-like blankets off the "sheep" and remove most of their own layers. One takes the entire pile of fabric to a nearby vendor and exchanges it for credits while the others go back and grab the supplies still in the plaza. By nightfall, everything and everyone is finally loaded onto your ship. The Korath who had sold the clothes to the merchant gives you the entire stack of 4,100 credits. Hopefully you'll get the rest after you get to <planet>.
The animals are surprisingly comfortable on the ship, but the Korath struggle. Based on how often they're in and out of the bathroom during the one-jump trip, none of them have been in hyperspace before. When they get over their space sickness, they busy themselves shaving the wool-like fur off the animals and gathering it.
	As you land and open the cargo doors to reveal the hot world of <planet>, the animals shift excitedly. They seem much more energetic than any time before now, so much so that the Korath have some trouble keeping them all together as they exit the ship. The slow desertification of this planet is surely a cause for concern, but it seems to provide a much healthier environment for these animals than Setar Fort's chilling temperatures do. Once everything is off your ship, a Korath takes the wool to another vendor and again sells it, then it returns and hands you 5,900 credits. With the 4,100 credits it gave you before leaving, you've received all 10,000 promised credits. It holds its hands up with its palms toward you then leaves to join the other farmers.
A Korath
A Kor Efret
communicates using gestures that it wants you to
uses gestures to ask you to
bring a small crate
bring a package
take a shipment weighing less than one ton
carry a box
to <destination> for <payment>.
It shouldn't take up any significant room on your ship.
It's small enough to fit below your seat.
The item is small enough for you to hold in your hands.
It's small enough that it won't take up any cargo space.
Take a small delivery to <destination> for <payment> for a Kor Efret.
You find a Korath who seems to have been waiting for you in the spaceport. They greet you by showing their palms, then outstretch their hands as if waiting to receive the package. You hand off the small delivery and they hand you a small payment of <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> for the Kor Efreti. Payment is <payment>.
The Kor Efreti need some food supplies moved to another planet. Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
The Kor Efreti don't have much manufacturing capability, but the Wanderers could make use of these materials. Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
The Kor Efreti don't have much manufacturing capability, but the Wanderers could make use of these materials. Deliver <cargo> to the Wanderers on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
The Kor Efreti on <destination> are dangerously low on food supplies. Deliver <cargo> by <date> to alleviate the crisis. Payment is <payment>.
Korath passengers to <planet>
Bring this group of <bunks> Kor Efreti to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Korath settlers to <planet>
Take these <bunks> migrating Kor Efreti and their <cargo> to the new Wanderer-Korath settlement on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
The Korath settlers slowly depart your ship with their cargo, seemingly apprehensive to step onto this once-dead world. The Korath in charge gives you a gesture of thanks and hands you <payment>.
Teaching Wanderer farming methods
Take <bunks> Kor Efreti to learn Wanderer farming methods on <stopovers>, then return them to <planet>. Payment is <payment>.
The Wanderers try to explain their farming methods to the Korath farmers, but the language barrier makes it challenging. The Korath eventually pick up bits and pieces of what the Wanderers are doing. Time to return to <destination>.
When you return, the Korath move their hands in a circular motion with their palms toward you as a sign of gratitude. They hand you <payment> and disembark your ship.
This weapon fires homing balls of microbots that pass through a target's shields and attempt to convert its hull into raw materials or useful items such as heat shunts. As Exile microbots contain safety circuits that prevent them from becoming independent of their Systems Core, they will fail after a short time, but not before wreaking havoc on the ship.
	Because the same property that allows the microbots through a target's shields disrupts the shields of the ship firing them, it should never be used without an appropriately large Systems Core. Given adequate shield generation, however, the microbots make fantastic miners.
This low-power version of the Banisher is used on Korath fighters to push enemy vessels away from carriers and civilians.
The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely create twin lances of fire: Rather, they begin to form a gestalt - a single, longer, hotter, and almost hypnotic column of fire.
Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. Three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than three would individually.
Thermal Repeaters fire compact bolts of superheated plasma at their targets. For every one of these turrets installed on a ship, an auxiliary cooling system is typically required to cope with its heat output.
This missile is fired from a Piercer Missile Launcher.
The Piercer Missile Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Piercer Missile Launchers.
Although not the most damaging weapon of its size, the Korath Detainer is feared for two reasons: its exceptionally long range, and its ability to interfere with the propulsion systems of any ship it strikes. Its reputation has earned it the honor of being named for the Korath themselves.
This is ammunition for a Cluster Mine Layer. Each mine splits into eleven submunitions after it is deployed.
The Cluster Mine Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Cluster Mine Layers.
Shield Disruptor Turrets interfere with a ship's shields, allowing a ship's hull to be damaged even when shields are up. However, they do very little hull damage by themselves.
When the Korath Exiles needed a cheap mining laser for their large vessels, they re-engineered this ancient, robust design and added a turret base. The mild shield disruption effect makes it somewhat useful in combat if required.
The gun version of the classic Korath mining laser allows a larger mothership to release a cloud of fighter-sized miners to harvest resources when working faster-moving or more dangerous asteroid fields.
Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. This turret converts scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into a high speed debris field. The exact mechanism is unclear, but the internal workings bear some similarities to hyperdrives and Banishers.
	At close range, the heaved langrage merely forces the enemy back. As the launch field collapses and the langrage returns fully to normal space, however, it is rent into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.
This rack stores additional Firelight missiles to feed into a Firelight Bank.
The reactor element inside a Firelight Missile must be kept minimally active in order to ensure it is ready for launch. Although terribly inefficient, it nonetheless produces a trickle of power that can be tapped into when properly installed.
As the Firestorm Torpedo does not require full reactor shielding or safety interlocks, Korath engineers were able to create the Firelight by further scaling down the reactor element to fit in a missile casing for use on and against smaller vessels.
	Rather than rely on traditional reaction engines attached to the missile for launch, this rapid-fire missile bank appears to operate on the same principles as a Banisher.
This is a huge grinder that digests incoming material with the aid of microbots. With intake bays large enough to swallow a drone whole, wrecking claws massive enough to tear apart the hulls of heavy warships, and a seemingly omnicidal swarm of microbots ready to break down anything that falls in to its component molecules, it is a fearsome sight that any captain would be foolish to fly within reach of.
Massive in both size and destructive capability, the Firestorm Torpedo's enormous blast radius makes it a dangerous part of larger ship arsenals, despite the lack of more recent Korath innovations. The Firestorm Torpedo is used as ammo for the Firestorm Battery.
This large cage-like rack is designed to be able to house several deadly Firestorm Torpedoes.
Though not as refined as the newer Firelight version, this torpedo contains an augmented Korath Plasma Core reactor element completely stripped of its protective casing and safety interlocks. When activated, it generates a tremendous explosion of heat and force that pushes ships away and will even melt their hulls.
This tiny generator produces a significant amount of energy using the heat produced by the radioactive decay of some particularly unstable nuclear isotopes.
Because Korath equipment is so power-hungry, they use radiothermal generators even in their fighters and interceptors, rather than relying on fuel cells or other comparable technology.
With their typical disregard for the environmental impacts of their technology, the Korath put some rather alarming isotopes into this radiothermal generator. Its considerable energy output is offset by the heat it produces.
This compact Fusion Reactor is an ancient Korath design, and served as the mainstay of their war fleets until larger ships and more powerful weapons created a need for bigger and more powerful generators.
This reactor core combines a pair of the ancient and robust Korath Plasma Cores into a single package.
For the largest of their capital ships, the Korath designed a fusion reactor far more powerful than any comparable human technology.
The sheer inefficiency of most Korath equipment has forced them to become exceptionally good at one thing: dealing with large amounts of waste heat.
Without these powerful cooling systems, most Korath warships would overheat within seconds as soon as they began to fire their weapons.
This active cooling system uses a liquid sodium cooling loop to extract heat from the ship's hottest systems. A secondary system draws a moderate amount of power to continuously run the pump and maintain a minimum temperature in order to keep the sodium from freezing when the system is inactive.
Most Korath fighter pilots dispense with Systems Cores, preferring to run larger than necessary generators and return to their mothership if they take damage. Usually, only civilian small craft operators are willing to sacrifice enough firepower to mount this shield generator, capacitor, swarm of repair microbots, and computer to control them.
The heart of any Korath ship is the Systems Core, which houses the ship's central computer, shield generators, reserve power, and a small reservoir which stores, produces and recycles a small microbot swarm that can make minor repairs to the ship while in flight.
The Systems Core houses a powerful computer, shield generators, reserve power, and a control center for repair microbots that can move across a ship's exterior and slowly repair damage to the hull. The microbot reservoir is capable of supporting a significant swarm.
This massive bank of computers, shield generators, capacitors and repair microbot reservoirs holds everything needed to keep the very largest of Korath ships in working condition.
The Fuel Processor was developed during the latter half of the Korath Civil War, when Korath factions attempted to provide for their war effort by raiding the Hai for supplies. Their ships would often end up stranded after they had run out of fuel and were unable to escape from the Hai military fleets, prompting the creation of this hybrid fuel storage and ramscoop device. These outfits are now the main source of fuel for the remaining Korath in the galaxy.
In response to occasional raids by the robotic war machines left behind after their recent conflict, the Kor Efret have developed this minimal, spartan Command Center that can be installed in a captured robotic ship to allow a pilot to override the AI and interface with the ship's controls. The Command Center only provides a single bunk for the captain, so more bunks may be necessary if the ship has turrets or other systems that require crew.
This is some sort of advanced, miniature computer combined with various sensor inputs and a hyperspace communication relay. Presumably, in some way it controls the Mereti automata or allows them to more easily coordinate their actions with each other.
This is a miniaturized communication device, which can be connected to all the major systems of a Kor Sestor automaton, apparently as a way of controlling them remotely. The communications are encrypted and authenticated in a way that would make it nearly impossible to spoof the control signals.
The smallest of afterburners is as much Fuel Processor as it is afterburner. It allows Korath small craft operators to squeeze a hyperdrive into otherwise intrasystem ships and dispense with conventional thrusters entirely.
	Korath afterburners pump super-heated hyperspace fuel directly into a thruster's plasma stream, resulting in a phenomenal explosion that may nearly melt the thruster.
Adding these afterburners to an interceptor allows it to reach absurd speeds; however, the heat produced ensures that running them for any substantial period of time will require some serious cooling.
	Korath afterburners pump super-heated hyperspace fuel directly into a thruster's plasma stream, resulting in a phenomenal explosion that nearly melts the thruster.
Although these afterburners produce an incredible amount of thrust for their fuel usage, the prospect of installing one brings to mind many safety concerns.
These enormous afterburners have dedicated reaction chambers with cooling vents to keep the fuel-plasma explosion from destroying the thruster.
The very largest of Korath afterburners have integrated active cooling systems, powered by the fuel-plasma explosion, in order to keep the reaction chambers from melting.
Although the prevailing Korath attitude towards engine construction has always been with a focus on making things bigger, faster, and more powerful, the Exiles found it necessary to develop these engines to allow their fighters to carry larger weapons or more cargo, at the cost of some speed.
This modification of the Meteor Class engines acts as a reverser, allowing a full range of mobility for small craft when paired with more powerful base thrusters.
The Asteroid Class reverser provides a modest amount of thrust, giving Korath captains with weapon space to spare a small edge in battle.
	This Korath engine has been modified to be partially installed in a ship's weapon space, allowing it to push the ship in reverse.
The Comet Class reverser is unpopular amongst Korath captains, who find it a bit weak to pair with Planetary Class engines, yet too large to be worth sacrificing weapon space.
Dwarfing any reversers in human space, this engine provides a considerable amount of reverse thrust for medium sized Korath ships, where it is most commonly found.
Being essentially a slightly altered Planetary Class engine, this reverser provides an enormous amount of reverse thrust for any ship capable of installing it.
Modeled on their largest engines, the Stellar Class reverser provides a reverse thrust unlike anything you've seen before.
Given its size, this tiny Korath thruster produces quite a kick. But, it also draws a considerable amount of power.
Like most Korath technology, this thruster's power is offset by its energy requirements and heat output.
The Korath have the dubious distinction of relying on propulsion systems that produce more waste heat than the weapon systems of most other species.
The Quarg, who do all things efficiently, view the Korath propulsion systems with particular distaste.
A legend among the Korath claims that when they were first testing out their latest generation of plasma thrusters, a concerned Quarg fleet approached and volunteered to help evacuate the Korath crew from what they assumed was a dying ship. The Quarg were surprised to learn that the flames shooting out the back of the ship were in fact its intended mode of propulsion.
The Korath use these steering systems only in the very smallest of their ships.
This compact steering system is a classic example of Korath technology: small, powerful, and woefully inefficient.
Korath engines can be fitted into just about any ship, but unless accompanied by some Korath cooling systems as well, their heat output will often be more than the ship can handle.
Where other species might focus on converting energy into thrust as efficiently as possible, the Korath instead strive to pack as much power as possible into the smallest area. This steering system is a classic example of their work.
After millennia of war, the Korath have developed some truly enormous warships. These steering systems give even their largest warships a reasonable amount of agility in combat.
Efreti engineers have begun to grudgingly take inspiration from their not-entirely-welcome Quarg guardians. The incorporation of gravitational propulsion increases the thrust output for engines in this line, at the cost of even higher energy use. These are the smallest such gravitoplasma-based thrusters.
The forced retreat from research into interstellar jump drive technology has left the Efreti engineers with little else to tinker with than subluminal propulsion. These resulting thrusters are one important example of this effort. Synthesizing gravitational propulsion with more traditional plasma thrusters moderates the heat output from these engines.
The design of these engines suggests Efreti physicists appear to have gone considerably further than the mathematically self-consistent, but stubbornly unfalsifiable, conjectures of String Theory. Despite the Efreti's limited resources, these thrusters allow their engines to maintain the traditional Korath emphasis on speed in a small package while keeping heat output down.
Korath physicists have, for several centuries, understood concrete aspects of the unity that underlies both quantum gravity and the forces that bind quarks and gluons together. However, as Efreti efforts are comparatively recent, this technological synthesis lags behind comparable Quarg technology.
	These are the largest gravitoplasma thrusters that the Efreti have to offer, and as such are usually only found on their gargantuan civilian ships. Despite their size and thrusting power, the Quarg are still rather unimpressed with the inefficient nature of the design.
Unlike most Korath engines, Efreti engines do not rely solely on plasma. Gravitoplasma engines combine traditional Korath plasma thrust with Quarg-inspired forays into gravitation-based propulsion. The smallest steering manages to develop a great deal of torque at the expense of higher energy costs.
An important product of Efreti engineers' ongoing effort to evolve their understanding of fundamental physics and how it can be put into practice is this compact steering system. A classic example of Korath technology, it is small, powerful, and woefully inefficient. It appears that the Quarg influence on the Efreti has not changed the underlying design philosophy of the Korath living here.
In these hybrid gravitoplasma thrusters, Efreti scientists and engineers have begun to instantiate the newest, unified understandings of quantum gravity with the nuclear forces.
	Unless accompanied by some Korath power systems, this Efreti steering system's energy consumption will often be more than a ship can handle. Their main advantage when compared to other Korath engines of the same size is reduced heat production.
Prompted by the grim will to trudge onwards and innovate despite being forced to abandon jump drive technology, Efreti engineers have recently begun to utilize their theoretical knowledge to incorporate gravitational propulsion into their more traditional fusion-based plasma engines.
	More stable than one would expect from Korath engines this large, these steering thrusters were developed by the Efreti as a means of guiding their most massive ships. Their high energy usage is tempered by the fact that they are usually powered by the most massive Korath fusion reactors.
This rifle is commonplace among the Korath, predating the creation of the ship-scale Thermal Repeater by at least two centuries. As it uses superheated plasma instead of lasers, the rifle is slow to fire and can sometimes burn its user's hands if they aren't careful. It makes up for these setbacks by guaranteeing that those hit won't live long enough to fire back.
This insidious trap awaits anyone foolish enough to attempt to capture Korath World-Ships. Intruders are trapped before this airlock, ahead of which a cloud of microbots programmed to break down organic matter into nutrigel is released. The resulting gel then drains into the vat below while the robots are recalled.
	Many races find this means of defense abhorrent. Citing the excruciating, confusing death experienced by its victims, the violation of taboos relating to cannibalism, and erroneous fears that the microbots could somehow "escape," possession of these airlocks may result in heavy fines.
Sesk
Grak
Prat
Pask
Sork
Chik
Sker
Skor
Asik
Bask
Erat
Iket
Iper
erat
efar
eskat
etak
sper
chata
chask
oper
oder
urik
frek
wask
went
pruk
otor
istin
 Ertak
 Stak
 Skar
 Prat
 Mark
 Per
 Terch
 Grat
eskar
istek
akfar
uket
tari
atip
elect
ipta
oshtar
arati
orim
etar
eldar
waru
wasi
