You have reached <planet>, but you left the <npc> behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
The captain of the <npc> thanks you for escorting them safely, and pays you <payment>.
The government of <planet>
 gratefully 
pays you <payment> for helping to
 drive off 
 defeat 
the 
pirates.
raiders.
attackers.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity> and collect your payment of <payment>.
You have reached <planet>, but not all of the cargo is in the system! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
You wish your <passengers> the best of luck on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
You say farewell to your <passengers> on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
You have reached <planet>, but not all of the passengers are in the system! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
You have reached <planet>, but not all of the cargo and passengers are in the system! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or not all the cargo and passengers are in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or not all the passengers are in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or not all the cargo is in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or you left the <npc> behind.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't passed through <waypoints>, or not all the cargo and passengers are in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't passed through <waypoints>, or not all the passengers are in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't passed through <waypoints>, or not all the cargo is in the system.
You have reached <planet>, but you haven't visited all the planets yet! Better depart and make sure you visit <stopovers>.
You have reached <planet>, but you haven't visited all the systems yet! Better depart and make sure you visit <waypoints>.
The <npc> has been eliminated. You can claim the bounty payment by returning to <destination>.
The government of <planet> gratefully pays you <payment> for eliminating the <npc>.
You've landed on <planet>, but the <npc> has not been eliminated yet. Hunt it down and destroy it before returning.
You've landed on <planet>, but you have not boarded the <npc> yet. Hunt it down and board it before returning.
The <npc> and their fleet have been eliminated. You can claim the bounty payment by returning to <destination>.
The government of <planet> gratefully pays you <payment> for eliminating the <npc> and their fleet.
You've landed on <planet>, but the <npc> and its fleet has not been eliminated yet. Hunt it down and destroy it before returning.
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still pirates circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
You find the contact at the edge of the spaceport. Your cargo of <commodity> is removed from your ship, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
You find the contact outside of the main city. Your cargo of <commodity> is removed from your ship, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
Your passenger never arrived at <destination>. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
Your cargo of <commodity> never arrived at its destination. The pirates won't be happy to hear about this.
After landing on <planet>, the pirates move the <bunks> slaves from your ship and pay you <payment>.
Lightweight and rust resistant, aluminum is often used for the hulls of civilian spacecraft that do not need to be able to stand up to prolonged weapons fire.
In its pure form, copper is valued mostly for its high thermal and electrical conductivity. But, it is also used in small quantities in a wide variety of alloys.
Useful for its high electrical conductivity and prized for its beauty and luxury status, gold can always find a well-paying market.
Although it is one of the most common metals, iron is also one of the most useful.
As one of the densest non-radioactive elements, lead has been the material of choice for bullets ever since the invention of firearms. Its other uses are limited by regulations for preventing lead poisoning.
As rare as gold and even more valuable, platinum has many industrial uses because it resists oxidation even when heated to high temperatures.
Silicon in its pure form is used for electronics and semiconductors. It is a very common element and easy to harvest.
Although not as pricy as gold, silver is used not just in jewelry but in electronics, disinfectants, and high-quality mirrors, and as a chemical catalyst.
Strong, lightweight, and resistant to corrosion, titanium is one of the chief metals used for starship hulls and structural members.
Tungsten has many industrial uses due to its high melting point and its strength.
Uranium is best known for its use in the nuclear reactors that power large starships. Its most stable isotope U-238 is also used for ultra-strong hull plating and for armor-piercing projectiles.
An extraordinarily rare crystalline formation, forged over tens of thousands of years in the molecular clouds around supernova remnants. Although less advanced species can potentially harvest it, very few civilizations other than the Quarg have developed the technology needed to incorporate yottrite in an alloy.
'Void Orchid' is the generic term for a variety of strange, plant-like organisms that live primarily on asteroids. Due to the way they concentrate minerals from their host asteroid, they are valued both as scientific curiosities as well as for their mineral content.
Provides up to this amount of cooling per second. Active cooling requires energy, but if your heat level is low it runs at a lower cooling rate and lower energy draw. The amount of cooling is proportional to the temperature of your ship, reaching the full level only if you are about to overheat.
Energy consumed per second when firing this afterburner.
Shields displaced, consumed, or destroyed, per second when firing this afterburner.
Hull that flakes off, breaks apart, or is otherwise compromised, per second when firing this afterburner.
Fuel consumed per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated shield discharging per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated hull corrosion per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated ionization per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated scrambling per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated leaking fuel per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated exothermic interactions per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated engine interference per second when firing this afterburner.
Accumulated shield interference per second when firing this afterburner.
Heat created per second when firing this afterburner.
Thrust produced by this afterburner.
The range of this asteroid scanner is proportional to the square root of this value.
This type of scanning cannot be performed by your ship, but this outfit might be useful for certain missions.
How many people (passengers or crew) your ship can hold.
Protection against weapons that have a burn effect. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in burn damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much burn damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting burn damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting burn damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting burn damage.
Increases the "strength" of one crew member when attacking another ship to capture it. Each crew member can only wield one weapon at a time, but they will use whichever weapons provide the highest power.
Increases the "strength" of one crew member when defending against an attempt to capture this ship. Each crew member can only wield one weapon at a time, but they will use whichever weapons provide the highest power.
Lets you scan your target ship's cargo from up to this distance away.
The range of this cargo scanner is proportional to the square root of this value.
Determines how long it takes to perform a cargo scan. A higher value will correspond to a quicker scan.
The maximum speed of this cargo scanner is proportional to the square root of this value. The observed scan speed will be impacted by multiple factors. Targets which are farther away or have a larger cargo hold will take longer to scan.
How much cargo (commodities, mission cargo, and plundered outfits) this ship can carry.
How much cargo space this outfit uses up.
This outfit allows your ship to cloak. The value represents how long it takes to fully activate or deactivate cloaking. Ships cannot fire while cloaked.
Energy per second required to maintain cloaking.
Fuel per second required to maintain cloaking.
Heat generated per second while cloaked.
Reduces heat by this amount per second. This is for when your ship's built-in heat dissipation is not sufficient to keep it from overheating.
When active cooling is running at full strength (because your ship's temperature is approaching the overheating threshold) it will draw this much energy.
Interferes with your ship's ability to cool itself. Its cooling systems will only be about 75% effective at a cooling inefficiency of 5, and 30% at an inefficiency of 10.
Protection against weapons that have a corrosion effect. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in corrosion damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much corrosion damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting corrosion damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting corrosion damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting corrosion damage.
Protection against weapons that have a discharge effect. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in discharge damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much shield discharge damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting discharge damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting discharge damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting discharge damage.
Protection against weapons that have a disruption effect. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in disruption damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much shield disruption damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting disruption damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting disruption damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting disruption damage.
Limits the maximum speed of a ship.
Reduces drag. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in drag, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
The number of ships from the "Drone" category that this ship can carry.
How much energy this ship can store. This allows you to temporarily use more power than your generators produce.
Energy consumed per second while in flight.
Energy generated per second. If your ship has weapons other than beam weapons, you will probably also need batteries to store energy in.
Tons of engine space this outfit takes up.
How many tons of engines this ship can hold. (To install an engine, you must also have enough total outfit space available.)
Protection against weapons that deal energy damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in energy damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
The number of ships from the "Fighter" category that this ship can carry.
Protection against weapons that apply a hit force. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in hit force, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
This ship's current fuel amount. An ordinary hyperdrive jump consumes 100 fuel.
An ordinary hyperdrive jump consumes 100 fuel. Fuel is replenished for free when you land on an inhabited planet.
Fuel consumed per second while in flight (can generate energy or heat).
Energy produced per second while in flight, as a consequence of fuel consumption.
Fuel generated per second.
Heat produced per second while in flight, as a consequence of fuel consumption.
Protection against weapons that deal fuel damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in fuel damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
This weapon uses up a gun port. Guns always fire straight forward; turrets fire in the direction of your currently selected target.
How many guns this ship can hold. This includes most missiles and secondary weapons that fire straight forward.
How effectively this ship radiates excess heat.
Heat generated by this outfit per second. Heat generation can be offset by "cooling" outfits. If your ship exceeds its maximum heat, it must temporarily shut down to cool itself off.
Protection against weapons that do heat damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in heat damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Increases the maximum heat that this ship is able to withstand before becoming overheated. A value of one has the same influence on a ship's maximum heat as one ton of mass, without the effects that mass has on movement.
Total hull strength and repair rate (per second). The smallest of ships are disabled when their hull strength drops below about 45%, while very large ships are disabled at close to 10%.
Energy consumed per second when repairing the hull.
Modifies the energy consumed when repairing the hull by the given factor.
Fuel consumed per second when repairing the hull.
Modifies the fuel consumed when repairing the hull by the given factor.
Heat produced per second when repairing the hull.
Modifies the heat produced when repairing the hull by the given factor.
Amount of hull strength that can be repaired per second. Repairs usually consume energy and may generate heat as well.
How many seconds it takes for hull repairs to begin after taking hull damage.
How many seconds it takes for hull repairs to begin after being disabled.
The remaining hull strength at which the ship becomes disabled. This attribute takes priority over other attributes that change the disabled threshold.
Alters the hull strength value at which the ship will become disabled.
Alters the percentage of the remaining hull strength at which the ship will become disabled.
Protection against weapons that do hull damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in hull damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Modifies the amount of hull strength repaired per second by the given factor.
Amount of credits you can be fined for carrying this outfit.
Amount of credits you receive per day that you own this outfit, even if it is not in active use.
Reduces effective ship mass. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in inertia, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Protection against weapons that do ion damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in ion damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Protection against weapons that do scrambling damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in ion damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much ionization damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting ion damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting ion damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting ion damage.
How fast this ship is able to land on a planet, or travel through a wormhole.
How much scrambling damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting scrambling damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting scrambling damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting scrambling damage.
How slow the ship must be moving to make a jump.
How much fuel is consumed when you jump between systems using this drive.
How far you can jump between systems using this drive.
How much fuel this drive consumes, per 100 tons of mass. Additive with jump fuel.
A modifier to the impact your ship's mass has on the jump mass cost. Ships below this mass will have a cheaper jump cost than the base jump fuel cost, while ships above this mass will have more expensive jumps.
Protection against weapons that cause fuel leakage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in leak damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much leak damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting leak damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting leak damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting leak damage.
How many credits per day you need to spend to maintain this outfit. Even if a ship is parked or an outfit is in cargo, you still need to pay for its maintenance.
How many star systems are included in this map.
Mass of this ship when not carrying any cargo or fighters. Cargo increases mass, which reduces acceleration and turn rate and increases maximum heat before overheating.
Mass, in tons. A ship's mass determines how fast it turns and accelerates and its maximum heat before overheating.
How many credits per day you need to spend to maintain this outfit while it is in active use.
Amount of credits you receive per day that this outfit is in active use.
Lets you scan your target ship's outfits from up to this distance away.
The range of this outfit scanner is proportional to the square root of this value.
Determines how long it takes to perform an outfit scan. A higher value will correspond to a quicker scan.
The maximum speed of this outfit scanner is proportional to the square root of this value. The observed scan speed will be impacted by multiple factors. Targets which are farther away or have a larger outfit capacity will take longer to scan.
How much general-purpose space this outfit provides.
How much general-purpose space this outfit uses up. Some outfits also use up weapon space or engine space.
How much space this ship has for outfits (including weapons and engines).
How much hull damage this ship will take per second that it is overheated. Overheat damage scales with how far past the overheat threshold the ship is.
Increases the percentage past overheated at which point overheat damage begins.
Protection against weapons that pierce shields. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in damage leak, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Reduces the ability of optical-guided missiles to track your ship, which is mostly useful for larger ships. The more optical jamming is installed, the greater the distance at which missiles can be jammed, and the greater the chance that a jammed missile will fly off in a random direction.
Reduces the ability of radar-guided missiles to track your ship. The more radar jamming is installed, the greater the distance at which missiles can be jammed, and the greater the chance that a jammed missile will fly off in a random direction.
Replenishes fuel by harvesting the stellar wind. Ramscoops are more effective when closer to a star. If you add more than one ramscoop, each additional one is less effective: you need four ramscoops to achieve double the recharge rate that one ramscoop provides.
How many crew members are required to operate this ship, and how many total bunks are available. Extra bunks can be used for passengers or extra crew.
Changes the number of crew members this ship requires by this amount.
Allows a ship to apply reverse thrust instead of needing to turn backward to slow down.
Energy consumed per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Heat produced per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Shields displaced, consumed, or destroyed, per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Hull that flakes off, breaks apart, or is otherwise compromised, per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Fuel consumed per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated shield discharging per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated hull corrosion per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated ionization per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated scrambling per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated leaking fuel per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated exothermic interactions per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated engine interference per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Accumulated shield interference per second when firing reverse thrusters.
Ability to evade detection when a ship is carrying illegal outfits or cargo. Interference of 1 blocks 50% of scan attempts; 3 blocks 75%, and 9 blocks 90%.
This hyperdrive allows you to jump without coming to a stop, as long as your velocity is within this range of being lined up with the direction you are jumping in.
How likely this ship is to self-destruct when you try to board or capture it.
What this outfit will sell for, in credits. Outfits and ships will depreciate (lose resale value) over time, and plunder always starts out fully depreciated.
Energy consumed per second when recharging shields.
Modifies the energy consumed when recharging shields by the given factor.
Fuel consumed per second when recharging shields.
Modifies the fuel consumed when recharging shields by the given factor.
Heat produced per second when recharging shields.
Modifies the heat produced when recharging shields by the given factor.
Shield points recharged per second. Recharging shields usually consumes energy, and may also produce heat.
Modifies the amount of shield points recharged per second by the given factor.
How many seconds it takes for shield generation to begin after taking shield damage.
How many seconds it takes for shield generation to begin after your shields have been depleted.
Protection against weapons that do shield damage. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in shield damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
Protection against weapons that have a slowing effect. If you add more than one outfit with this attribute, each additional one is less effective: a total value of 1 results in a 1 percent reduction in slowing damage, while a total value of 11 only results in a 10 percent reduction.
How much slowing damage this ship can resist per second.
Energy consumed per second when resisting slowing damage.
Fuel consumed per second when resisting slowing damage.
Heat generated per second when resisting slowing damage.
Produces a variable amount of energy depending on how far this ship is from the star at the center of the system.
Produces a variable amount of heat depending on how far this ship is from the star at the center of the system.
Tactical scanners allow you to view your current target's crew complement, fuel, heat, and energy levels when it is within range. The range is proportional to the square root of this value.
The fastest this ship can travel when using ordinary thrusters (that is, without afterburner).
How quickly this ship gains speed. The higher a ship's mass (including the mass of any cargo or fighters it is carrying), the slower it accelerates.
How quickly this ship can accelerate and turn.
How quickly this ship can accelerate and turn when its cargo hold is full versus when it is empty.
Thrust produced by engines. Higher thrust increases a ship's acceleration and top speed. The more mass a ship has, the more thrust is needed to achieve the same acceleration.
Energy consumed per second when firing thrusters.
Heat generated per second when firing thrusters.
Shields displaced, consumed, or destroyed, per second when firing thrusters.
Hull that flakes off, breaks apart, or is otherwise compromised, per second when firing thrusters.
Fuel consumed per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated shield discharging per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated hull corrosion per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated ionization per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated scrambling per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated leaking fuel per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated exothermic interactions per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated engine interference per second when firing thrusters.
Accumulated shield interference per second when firing thrusters.
Turn rate, in degrees per second. The higher a ship's mass (including the mass of any cargo or fighters it is carrying), the slower it turns.
Turning force generated by this engine. The more mass a ship has, the more thrust is needed to achieve the same acceleration.
Energy consumed per second when turning.
Heat generated per second when turning.
Shields displaced, consumed, or destroyed, per second when turning.
Hull that flakes off, breaks apart, or is otherwise compromised, per second when turning.
Fuel consumed per second when turning.
Accumulated shield discharging per second when turning.
Accumulated hull corrosion per second when turning.
Accumulated ionization per second when turning.
Accumulated scrambling per second when turning.
Accumulated leaking fuel per second when turning.
Accumulated exothermic interactions per second when turning.
Accumulated engine interference per second when turning.
Accumulated shield interference per second when turning.
This weapon can fire in any direction, tracking your currently selected target. It uses up one of your ship's turret mounts.
How many turrets can be mounted on this ship. Turrets fire in the direction of the currently selected target, instead of firing straight forward like guns.
Tons of weapon space this outfit takes up.
How many tons of weapons this ship can hold. (To install a weapon, you must also have enough total outfit space available.)
Modifies the likelihood of this illegal outfit appearing on a cargo scan. The higher the brightness, the more likely a scan will pick it up. A scan brightness of 5 has as much a chance of being scanned as an outfit that is 5 tons.
Hides an equivalent mass of illegal cargo from cargo scans, preventing you from being fined for having it. For example, if you had 10 scan concealment, then up to 10 tons of illegal cargo would not appear on cargo scans.
Price the ship itself would sell for without any outfits installed.
Price that all this ship's outfits will sell for.
Energy and heat generated when this ship is idle, i.e. not firing weapons, turning, or thrusting.
Energy consumed and heat generated when this ship is turning and thrusting. This is in addition to the "idle" amount.
Energy consumed and heat generated when this ship is firing all its weapons. This is in addition to the "idle" amount.
Energy consumed and heat generated when this ship is recharging shields and repairing its hull at the same time. This is in addition to the "idle" amount.
Energy consumed and heat generated when this ship is repairing its hull. This is in addition to the "idle" amount.
Energy consumed and heat generated when this ship is recharging its shields. This is in addition to the "idle" amount.
Energy storage capacity and maximum safe level for heat generation. Energy capacity allows a ship to temporarily draw more energy than it produces. The heat maximum is the highest your heat generation can be without eventually causing your ship to overheat.
Weapons that are fixed in place (firing in the direction your ship is pointed) and that require no ammunition.
Weapons that can fire in any direction and will track your currently selected target.
Weapons that require ammunition (which must be purchased separately).
Outfits that serve as ammunition for other weapons. To fire this ammunition, you need a launcher of the appropriate type.
Outfits that occupy general space, not the space set aside for engines or weapons.
Outfits that either supply energy, or store the energy that is generated.
Thrusters and steering systems, which affect how quickly your ship moves.
Weapons that your crew uses when trying to capture a ship.
Items you can purchase or sell but that are not outfits that can be installed in a ship.
When this weapon fires it consumes outfits of this type.
The number of units of ammo that this weapon consumes when fired.
Total range of this weapon.
Shield damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
Hull damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
Minable damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
The amount of fuel lost by the target per second when hit by this weapon. If its shields are up, the loss will be cut in half. A negative amount means fuel is added.
When hitting a target this weapon increases the target's heat by this amount per second, or half this amount if the target's shields are up.
When hitting a target this weapon reduces the target's energy by this amount per second, or half this amount if the target's shields are up.
Reduces the target's energy. Ionization slowly wears off over time.
Causes weapon failures. Scrambling slowly wears off over time.
Reduces the target's turn rate, acceleration, and top speed. Slowing wears off over time.
Disrupts the target's shields, allowing weapon damage to "leak through" to the hull even if shields are up. Shield disruption wears off over time.
Amount of shield damage over time dealt by this weapon per second when firing.
Amount of hull damage over time dealt by this weapon per second when firing.
Amount of fuel damage over time dealt by this weapon per second when firing.
Amount of heat damage over time dealt by this weapon per second when firing.
Relative shield damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
Relative hull damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
Relative minable damage, converted to damage per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
The amount of fuel lost as a percentage of a target's total fuel per second when hit by this weapon. If its shields are up, the loss will be cut in half.
When hitting a target this weapon increases the target's heat as a percentage of its maximum heat capacity by this amount per second, or half this amount if the target's shields are up.
When hitting a target this weapon reduces the target's energy as a percentage of its energy capacity by this amount per second, or half this amount if the target's shields are up.
Energy consumed by this weapon per second when firing.
Heat generated by this weapon per second when firing.
Fuel consumed by this weapon per second when firing.
Amount of hull damaged by this weapon per second when firing.
Amount of shield damaged by this weapon per second when firing.
Reduces energy levels for some time after this weapon is fired.
Jams the weapons for some time after this weapon is fired.
Reduces the turn rate, acceleration, and top speed of the ship when this weapon is fired. Slowing wears off over time.
Disrupts the ships shields after firing this weapon, allowing damage from hostile weapons to "leak through" to the hull even if shields are up. Shield disruption wears off over time.
Reduces shields for some time after this weapon is fired.
Reduces hull for some time after this weapon is fired.
Reduces fuel for some time after this weapon is fired.
Increases heat for some time after this weapon is fired.
Relative firing energy costs, converted to energy per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
When firing this weapon then the ship's heat increases as a percentage of its maximum heat capacity by this amount per second.
The amount of fuel used or lost as a percentage of the ship's total fuel per second when this weapon is fired.
Relative hull loss when this weapon is fired, converted to loss per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
Relative shields loss when this weapon is fired, converted to loss per second to allow easy comparisons between different weapons.
How many projectiles per second this weapon fires. Weapons that fire continuously do not require batteries if the ship's energy generation per second is higher than the weapon's firing energy per second. Some continuous fire weapons only fire a fraction of the time, in which case the ship's energy production must be higher than the weapon's firing energy divided by the firing time to not require batteries.
How fast this turret turns to track its targets, in degrees per second.
How well this projectile tracks its target. Weapons with better homing can adjust to the target's speed to plot a more effective intercept course.
How well this weapon maintains its target lock.
How well this weapon maintains an optical target lock, which depends on the size of the target; negatively affected by any potential optical jamming equipement.
How well this weapon maintains an infrared target lock, which depends on the target ship's heat level and distance from the missile; IR-guided missiles become more accurate the closer they are to their targets.
How well this weapon maintains a radar target lock; negatively affected by the target ship's radar jamming equipment.
This percentage of this weapon's damage always leaks through to the hull.
What percentage of a weapon's piercing damage is resisted, preventing damage from leaking through the shields to the hull.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of shield damage.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of hull damage to ships or minable objects.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of damage to minable objects, in lieu of hull damage being used.
The amount of fuel lost by the target per shot when hit by this weapon. If its shields are up, the loss will be cut in half. A negative amount means fuel is added.
Each shot increases the target ship's heat by this amount, or half this amount if its shields are up.
Each shot reduces the target ship's energy by this amount, or half this amount if its shields are up.
Each shot increases the target's ionization by this amount. Ionization reduces the target's energy. Ionization slowly wears off over time.
Each shot increases the target's scrambling by this amount. scrambling causes weapon failures. It slowly wears off over time.
Each shot increases the target's shield discharge by this amount. Shield discharge continuously reduces the target's shields and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot increases the target's hull corrosion by this amount. Hull discharge continuously reduces the target's hull and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot causes the target to leak by this amount. Leak continuously decreases the target's fuel and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot causes the target to burn by this amount. Burn continuously increases the target's heat and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of shield damage as a percentage of the target ship's total shields.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of hull damage as a percentage of the target ship's total hull or the target minable object's total health.
Each shot fired by this weapon does this amount of damage as a percentage of the target minable object's total health, in lieu of relative hull damage being used.
The amount of fuel lost by the target per shot as a percentage of the ship's total fuel when hit by this weapon. If its shields are up, the loss will be cut in half.
Each shot increases the target ship's heat as a percentage of the ship's maximum heat capacity by this amount, or half this amount if its shields are up.
Each shot reduces the target ship's energy as a percentage of the ship's energy capacity by this amount, or half this amount if its shields are up.
Each shot requires this much energy. A weapon will not fire if the ship's batteries do not have at least this amount of energy stored.
Heat generated per shot.
Fuel consumed per shot.
Each shot fired by this weapon causes this amount of hull to be lost.
Each shot fired by this weapon causes this amount of shield to be lost.
Each shot increases the ship's ionization by this amount. Ionization reduces the ship's energy and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot increases the ship's scrambling by this amount. This jams the weapons and slowly wears off over time.
Each shot reduces the ship's turn rate, acceleration, and top speed. Slowing wears off over time.
Each shot disrupts the ship's shields, allowing hostile weapon damage to "leak through" to the hull even if shields are up. Shield disruption wears off over time.
Each shot applies discharge to the ship, reducing its shields over time. Shield disruption wears off over time.
Each shot applies corrosion to the ship, reducing the ship's hull over time. Corrosion wears off over time.
Each shot causes the ship's fuel to leak. Fuel leakage wears off over time.
Each shot causes the ship to burn, increases the ship's heat over time. Burn wears off over time.
Each shot reduces the ship's energy as a percentage of the ship's total energy capacity by this amount.
Each shot fired increases the ship's heat as a percentage of the ship's maximum heat capacity by this amount.
The amount of fuel used or lost per shot fired as a percentage of the ship's total fuel.
Each shot fired by this weapon causes this amount of hull damage as a percentage of the ship's total hull.
Each shot fired by this weapon causes this amount of shield loss as a percentage of the ship's total shields.
Maximum inaccuracy of this weapon, in degrees.
When this weapon hits something, everything within this distance (including friendly ships) will be damaged.
How resistant this missile is to anti-missile shots.
How powerful this anti-missile system's shots are. Some missiles are harder to destroy than others.
This ship's outfits are producing so much heat that it will overheat the moment it takes off. You must either add more cooling or remove some of the outfits that are producing heat.
This ship does not have any source of energy to power its systems. You should install some sort of generator.
This ship does not have enough fuel to provide energy to power its systems. You should increase the fuel capacity.
This ship does not have any sort of thruster installed. If it took off, it would be unable to move.
This ship does not have any steering systems installed. If it took off, it would be unable to turn.
This ship does not have enough bunks for its crew. It cannot take off.
This ship's only thruster is an afterburner. It may be unable to move if the afterburner runs out of fuel.
This ship has a reverse thruster but no forward thruster, which could make it very difficult to maneuver.
This ship has no means of generating energy. If its batteries are depleted, you could end up stranded and unable to move.
This ship's energy supply is not sufficient to run the thrusters at full power. Its top speed and acceleration will be diminished.
This ship's energy supply is not sufficient to run the steering at full power. Its turn rate will be diminished.
This ship is powered entirely by solar energy. If you fly too far from the center of a star system, maneuvering may become difficult because your engines will only have a fraction of the power they require.
This ship consumes fuel. However, it would immediately run out of fuel if it departs.
This ship has no hyperdrive. If it took off, it would be unable to leave this star system.
This ship has insufficient fuel capacity to make a hyperspace jump. If it took off, it would be unable to leave this star system.
There are insufficient bays available to carry this ship. If you take off, it would be unable to leave this star system.
This ship has insufficient energy storage to fire an installed weapon.
Governments that scan for illegal goods will attack you upon discovering this item in your possession in space, or arrest you if found when landed.
Endless Sky
	在获得许可证后，随着从这个星球上获得的自由唾手可得，你前往银行为你的第一艘船贷款...
	银行的建筑就是你在梦想未来会比现在不那么肮脏时所说的 "未来主义"：层层叠叠的曲线、尖顶和阳台，全都是闪闪发光的金属。每个沉重的玻璃门旁都站着一个门卫。你穿着你最好的衣服，但你在他们旁边感到很寒酸。
I hope you're enjoying the game!
Do you think you 
Ever wondered if you 
Think you'll also need some luck if you 
got what it takes to 
got the gumption to 
could 
are capable of 
have the guramba to 
are good enough to 
capture 
collect 
gather 
all 28 Marauder models?
Have you 
seen 
fought 
run away from 
one of those 
any of those 
some of those 
modified 
Marauder 
ships 
Leviathans 
Falcons 
Ravens 
Quicksilvers 
Splinters 
Mantas 
Arrows 
Bounders 
Firebirds 
lately?
recently?
in the past couple of days?
If you can find my crew, we'll help you turn that 
trash heap 
rust bucket 
jalopy 
bucket of bolts 
flying toaster 
garbage scow 
of yours 
you're flying 
you're piloting 
that you call a ship 
into a REAL marauding warship!
"Biroo" Atomic Thruster
"Benga" Atomic Steering
You're sure there's a Southbound Shipyards Fury under all the extra modifications. This ship appears to be one man's insane quest to make the most powerful single-pilot warship ever; after close inspection, you're inclined to believe he may have succeeded.
Who is your daddy and what does he DO?
I'm detective John Kimball!
Get to da choppa!
My CPU is a neural net processor; a learning computer.
I need your clothes, your boots, and your motorcycle.
I know now why you humans cry, but it's something I can never do.
Now this is the plan: Get your butt to Mars!
Excuse me, I would like to talk to you about Thomas Aquinas.
I have no respect for those with no respect for logic!
I swear I will not kill anyone.
Give these people air!
It's not a tumor!
There IS no bathroom!!!
You're a freakin' choirboy compared to me, a choirboy!!!!
Do you have a problem?
I know the solution:
Here's what you need to do:
In a sticky situation, here's what you do:
A piece of advice:
Beam them into space!
Beam their internal organs into space!
Launch all torpedoes at once!
Fire in all directions!
Transfer power from life support to the phaser banks!
Transfer power from life support to the weapons array!
Shoot everything at them!
Stuff your ship full of devastating short-ranged weapons; it's fun!
Ram them!
Ram them again!
Accelerate to Waaagh velocity!
When you need to make your point, stick to Pointedstick Communications Inc.!
Pointedstick Communications: making the galaxy a more verbose place, one commit at a time!
Pointedstick Inc.: "Sharpen your communication skills!"
Pointedstick Inc.: "Our products are simply so good that no one feels the need to compete with us!"
Did you know that you can hail a ship over and over again and you'll get a different reply each time?
Don't you have a cargo of antique grandfather clocks or something to deliver somewhere?
Need as well as greed have followed us to the stars, and the rewards of wealth still await those wise enough to recognize this deep thrumming of our common pulse.
They tell ya never to hit a man with a closed fist, but it is on occasion hilarious.
The human body can be drained of blood in 8.6 seconds given adequate vacuuming systems.
I remember too much, and... some of it's made up, and... some of it can't be quantified, and... there's secrets.
I reattached a girl's leg. Her whole leg. She named her hamster after me.
No power in the 'verse can stop me.
Hey, I've been in a firefight before! Well, I was in a fire. Actually, I was fired from a fry-cook opportunity.
I can kill you with my brain.
My food is problematic.
Any well-bred petty crook knows that the small, concealable weapons go to the far left of the place setting.
You can't take the sky from me.
They don't like it when you shoot at 'em. I worked that out myself.
Woo! This kind of flying really wakes up a guy!
I am a leaf on the wind. Watch how I soar.
If you can't do somethin' smart... do somethin' right.
Did something just fly off my gorram ship?
We are just too pretty for God to let us die.
If I ever kill you, you'll be awake, you'll be facing me, and you'll be armed.
We're all doomed! Who's flying this thing!? Oh right, that would be me.
I swear by my pretty floral bonnet, I will end you.
Just once I'd like things to go according to the gorram plan.
I'm a dangerous-minded man on a ship loaded with hurt.
Does it sound like I'm ordering a pizza?
I've made a lot of special modifications myself.
I take orders from just one person: me.
You've never heard of the Modified Osprey?
You know, sometimes I amaze even myself.
I expect the best and I give the best. Here's the beer. Here's the entertainment. Now have fun. That's an order!
Bugs? Why did it have to be bugs?
Great, kid. Don't get cocky.
I'm just a fly in the ointment. A monkey in the wrench.
I didn't come here to play Pumbaa on the radio.
I signed on to kill toasters, not take naps!
Sorry to interrupt just as it was getting interesting, but I'm afraid I've got to blow some bad guys into small pieces.
If you think the other guy might have a blaster hidden under the table... bring two blasters.
I'm a team player. As long as the rest of the team stays behind me.
Take it from me: 
A word of caution: 
A piece of advice: 
We had a slight weapons malfunction, but everything's perfectly alright now.
Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side.
Keep your distance. But don't look like you're trying to keep your distance.
Only the enemy will tell you where you are weak.
Shoot a nuke down a bug hole, you got a lot of dead bugs.
Your enemy cannot push a button... if you disable his hand.
This isn't a combat probe.
Never tell me the odds.
I dare you.
Be sure to test your commits.
Commit early, and commit often.
Make a new branch if you're changing things.
The wiki is full of useful information.
Be sure the beer is really free.
Location, location, location.
When asked a tough question
Before a big battle
When the Navy scans your ship
When docking your ship
If caught
When caught
I like to say
don't quip
don't shout
be sure to say
people like to hear
people like to say
your best bet is to say
tell the authorities
tell your partner
"I was out of bullets."
"There's safety in sandwiches."
"Welcome to the party, pal!"
"Punch it!"
"Here's where the fun begins!"
"I'm just a guy with a starship for hire."
"I'm going to grow a beard, just in case."
"Want a breath mint?"
"Sorry about the mess."
"I happen to like to shoot first."
"Laugh it up, fuzzball."
"This isn't a combat probe."
"Negative. I am a meat popsicle."
"How 'bout a bumper sandwich, Boogerlips?"
"I recommend the lobster."
"Bufaer" Atomic Thruster
Search for Ursa Polaris Station!
Someday
One day
Eventually
maybe I should 
I might 
I will 
I'm going to 
park this heap
moor this beast
put down roots
find a cozy orbit
 and 
retire as an outfit dealer.
open a universal outfitter.
start dealing exotic outfits.
sell outfits from everywhere.
stock outfits from all over the place.
If only 
I wish 
Reputable Captains wish 
someone 
a rich Captain 
an entrepreneurial spirited individual 
a Captain with wealthy friends 
would 
build 
construct 
put together 
cobble together 
make 
and stock 
a universal outfitter space station.
a place you could buy any outfit.
somewhere you could optimize your ships, without cris-crossing the known galaxy.
a space station out of asteroids - that carried all the outfits.
stole 
captured 
restored 
found 
got a hold of 
appropriated 
procured 
this very old Korath World Ship and 
made it my own
customized it
made some modifications
made a few modifications
, with a little help, of course.
"Basrem" Atomic Thruster
Long years of technological development were for me a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.
What were you thinking about when you hailed me? 'Oh look, an asteroid. Let's chat.'
How does it feel to try hailing an asteroid and actually succeeding?
What a day to be a non-sentient rock floating in the middle of the eternal void.
When even the local asteroid belt starts chatting with you, you can tell you've been jumping a little too much lately.
What's weirder, an asteroid that emits purple rays or the person that tried to talk with it?
My goals are beyond your understanding.
What the Quarg say about the Builders is false. I am the only one responsible for their extinction, and I am proud of it.
You think that nuclear weapons are bad? Come closer and you will see what a real weapon is.
I have been classified as a weapon of mass destruction by most human and alien governments. You don't want to see what I am capable of.
Sometimes, just for fun, I set myself on a close trajectory on an inhabited planet and pass just above their atmosphere. I love how lesser species start to freak out as they think that the end is near.
I have been watching you, <first> <last>, current captain of the <ship>.
I am here for you.
I want your money.
Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key. Three Skeleton Key.
Your politics bore me.
There is only one being in the whole universe that isn't commanded by AI, and that's me.
Shields are useless--I can pass through them just fine. I can show you, if you'd like.
The Quarg are wrong saying that the firstborns are long gone, for I am the firstborn.
Have you ever been in the Weft? It's so damn boring. It's a lot more fun to mess with simpler minds like yours.
I remember when the Archons tried to kill me with some supernovae. They got so depressed when they understood that not even their weapons could stop me.
I ate a black hole once. It took me a few years, but it was definitely worth it. Tastes like chicken.
I am the only thing in the universe capable of beating the power of friendship.
I want to tell you some words of a long gone past, which back then used to scare people of your race more than any weapon or war machine. These words are, 'The macOS workflow run was not successful.'
What are you looking at?
Stop staring at my ship.
I thought captains like you saw asteroids passing by every day.
I'm just a normal minor planet trying its best to ignore the law of gravity.
Unauthorized
Unknown
interface
computer access
<Transmission disrupted at source>
<Incoherent signal>
Incoherent
Irregular
Static
Undecipherable
response
EM beam
transmission burst
Unregistered
language
This ship appears to be a hollowed-out asteroid filled with strange equipment. It is unclear what is creating the rays of light, but they must have something to do with how it moves without obvious engines.
	Its advanced properties also allow it to reject the influence of enemy Command Centers, nullifying their effect.
Never underestimate the power of a bunch of crystals on a rock. In this case all they do is project some harmless purple rays around the Shooting Star, but the point still stands.
The real core of the Shooting Star, this floating crystal uses the effects of space-time to reduce the distance between a ship and its target. Legend has it this is no different from a thruster, but conventional engines don't bring your enemy closer.
	It also takes up a spinal mount slot to be installed, although you aren't sure why.
There appear to have been several prior attempts to discern the mechanics of this outfit, but the debate is still ongoing whether this can be considered a device or not.
'Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,' Arthur C. Clarke said. This is sufficiently advanced technology.
Although in appearance it may look somewhat similar to a tree, you don't know how it is supposed to resemble a skeleton. You aren't sure you want to find out either.
Remember, overkill is underrated.
When in doubt, add more flammenwerfer.
Why settle for something reasonable, when you can have something completely bonkers?
Bactrian Gaming.
His Union's Qi Pianist.
I'm basically a computer gynecologist.
Your ship looks like it came out of a liquidizer!
Look at me. I am the Captain now.
Pronounce "Wrzlprnft." You have 5 seconds.
Everything you see here has been created by volunteers. You can join us if you want!
To this day, I can still hear the Teeworlds title music.
I am a light sleeper; but I am a heavy dreamer.
Did you know Viggo broke his toe?
Meet me at the Prancing Pony.
This isn't my first ship. I fondly remember The Blin Machine and The Chernomobil.
Heard of solar panels? Now you can eat sunlight!
So you want to be a pirate, m'lad? Well, let me tell ye: being a pirate, be all about Branding.
Do not greed for the Thrumbo horns.
Honor thy muggroom.
If thou seest two sticks lying one on top of the other, thou shalt walk backwards over them with thy left foot first, not with thy right. Moreover, thou shalt not devour them.
Should a vulture's shadow fall across a fire that has gone out, thou shalt rekindle it three times or a great misfortune will ensue.
If thou cross the path of a white cockerel seated on two superimposed sticks, thou shalt not strike it, nor shalt thou address it by name nor partake of the said sticks.
Thou shalt not finkle backwards.
Thou shalt not finkle forwards.
Get the doomsday rounds.
I wouldn't recommend shooting at me, because your gun goes "pew pew," but my gun goes BBBRRRRRRR!
Ramming speed!
Tony. Get the boulder.
Not even close!
Knack II, baby!
Damnit Skaarl, did you hide my mushroom juice again?
Stand still! My eyes are on the side of my head!
One, two, three, four, two, two, three, four.
Luck is failure that failed.
If you want a weapon, here's a weapon. If you want conversation - here's a weapon.
Working with you is almost like working alone. Almost.
I will go over there. It looks quiet. It will be nice.
Yes, using Parsecs as measurement of speed does make sense.
Hello there.
I'm just a simple man trying to make my way in the universe.
Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis the wise?
Congratulations, you are being rescued. Please do not resist.
I'll be there for you. Cassian said I had to.
We all serve 
Praise be upon 
I'm definitely not being held hostage by 
the 
barmy bronc.
crazy colt.
daft dobbin.
foolish filly.
scatty stallion.
potty pony.
mental mustang.
May the Embers burn bright for you.
I am ash in the storm - watch how I soar.
Through shadows of wind and fire - we shall prevail.
The Embers burn bright tonight - A storm is coming.
The cataclysm of eons draws near - Be calm and steadfast.
Born of earth, weaned in war, forged in embers, ascend in blackest night.
Why are so many scared of deep space? It is so beautiful...
As once the Embers burned hot, so shall they burn again.
Have you ever watched the clouds drift in the skies of Nasqueron?
Don't mind me - I'm just testing out some stuff.
Don't mind me - Just a test run to shake the dust out.
Don't even try - I have the safeties disabled, so I'll go down fighting.
Don't worry - they are just prototypes.
Look good, don't they? You can thank Becca and Brick for that.
Education cannot cure fear, intolerance, or incompetence. But it does give a bonus to resisting them.
Why ever would a creator want to raise sheep? Much better to raise new creators.
If you ever need something to do: 
If you like what we are doing: 
If you don't like what we are doing: 
If you want these ships: 
playtest pull requests.
leave informative comments.
leave approving reviews when you think it is ready.
write new missions.
fly on the latest nightly build.
fly on the latest continuous build.
remember to update!
give us details about what you do or don't like, and why.
dream big, start small.
new campaigns are great, but new mini-mission sets are awesome!
explore! There's a lot of interesting stuff hidden away out there!
make plug-ins!
review!
review, review, review!
have I mentioned that details about what you do or don't like are helpful?
have I mentioned that reviews are very helpful?
Advice to remember: 
From one starfarer to another: 
Words from a creator: 
always make a new branch if you are changing things.
never make changes on 'master'.
be sure to test commits.
commit early, and commit often.
the wiki is full of useful information.
never, ever, make changes on 'master'.
remember to make a new branch before you start changing things.
work on a new branch. Keep your master even with the upstream master.
update your master on a regular basis, and try to keep your pull requests up to date too.
the errors.txt file can be very useful.
'git fetch upstream' and 'git merge upstream/master' are my friends. That's how I update.
'git fetch --all --prune && git merge upstream/master' is my friend.
when making branch names, don't use any of these characters: \ / $ * : ; < > ? '' | .
if you need to track down an error and errors.txt doesn't cut it, try verbose logging with -d.
while launched with -d, you can remap the fast-forward to have access to both accelerated and slowed flow of time!
while launched with -d, you can pause the game using the backtick (`) key!
vanilla content is what attracts new people. Plug-in content is what holds them.
if you have an idea you want to try out, make a plug-in!
if you tried out a new idea in a plug-in, share it!
If sticks and stones break bones, then bricks should work wonders.
The red coloring in bricks is caused by rust or iron oxide in the clay prior to baking.
Bricks and blenders make monsters.
I have no idea what I'm doing.
No matter how maligned, every ship has someone out there that loves it.
Surprisingly, someone invested a lot of time, money, and effort into transforming this humble boxwing from a flying coffin into a palatial sarcophagus. It is still terribly cramped, but at least it is luxurious and shiny!
The whole room is spinning.
I am fueling your nightmares.
Turrets = woke. Spinals = broke.
My eyes are on fire.
Curve modifier is love. Curve modifier is life.
Just use denoising.
What is a blender internal?
You need new sprites?
Spot the difference.
Never underestimate how far an individual is willing to go to modify their favorite spacecraft - sometimes before it even exists.
This is a personally obtained prototype Fusion Cannon, a deadly, massive spinal weapon. Where it came from, nobody knows except the owner, and those who wish to ask are too afraid of being on the receiving end.
Oh dear.
Ah yes.
Lovely.
Suffering.
Why is everything Alphas?
You're only a terrorist if the people experience terror.
Have you finished the Free Worlds storyline yet?
Things don't have to mimic an Earth creature to be not very alien.
I have questions. Questions that do not yet need answers.
There are no bugs in my code, only Xapleaux precursors.
If I were green I would photosynthesize.
"Trust the process" isn't a joke for no reason.
Have you reviewed Hai Reveal yet?
I gotta go get ready for work. Play nice and don't @ me.
I don't even like yellow.
I really enjoy the backstory for the Marauders.
Falling into the Ember Waste and emerging into absolute silence for the first time in dozens of gameplay hours was profoundly moving.
Planet descriptions will be the death of me.
Have you tried Quyykk's editor for map work?
Did systems get made big yet?
Heat lasers and hull lasers are different metas and shouldn't be combined.
<placeholder text>
"Biroo" Reverse Thruster
"Bondir" Atomic Steering
This is an old war-torn Hai Ladybug with numerous modifications done on the hull. Apart from the additional turret mounts, the main adjustments on the vessel are three huge engine cells - two in the back replacing the old engine pods, and one in the front replacing the gun mounts. These push the Modified Ladybug to speeds only an insane captain would enjoy.
You've heard enough horror stories about the sort of accidents that happen when starship systems malfunction to be completely convinced of the necessity of a pre-flight safety check. As you listen to the complex symphony of hums, rattles, and clicks of the <ship> warming up, you run through a mental checklist. Computers: check. Life support: check.
	It is all going smoothly until it comes time to fire up your systems for a test run... and you discover that your generator does not produce enough power to power them. You'll have to either install some batteries, or switch to a more powerful generator.
	It is all going smoothly until it comes time to fire up the thrusters for a test run... and you realize, much to your embarrassment, that you do not have any thrusters installed. Time to head back to the outfitter and fix that!
	It is all going smoothly until it comes time to fire up the steering engines for a test run... and you realize, much to your embarrassment, that you do not have any steering installed. Time to head back to the outfitter and fix that!
	By the time you reach the end of the checklist, it has grown uncomfortably warm. The air smells like ozone and hot metal, and your cameras are showing a plume of steam or smoke escaping from the hull near the engines. If your systems are running this hot while still in the atmosphere, they're likely to overheat the moment you hit hard vacuum. You are going to have to either install cooling systems, or trade out some components for lower-heat alternatives.
	But when you reach the end of the checklist, although nothing appears wrong, you have a sneaking suspicion that something isn't right. You go through the checklist again, but the suspicion only grows. You decide to check the specifications of the ship and each of the outfits you have installed and finally find the issue that was scratching at the back of your mind: you've somehow managed to outfit the <ship> to require more crew than it has space for. You are going to have to either install more bunk rooms, or trade out some components that require extra crew, lest the ship come crashing down during takeoff as a result of not having enough crew to man all the necessary systems.
This ancient and quiet world, orbiting a dim red sun, is home to the microchip foundries of House Idriss, the Arach guild that specializes in computers and advanced electronics. Outside of the cities, which are clustered around the equator, Ablub's Invention is uninhabited except by the native lifeforms, including strange, spindly-legged quadrupeds, awkward birds with leathery wings, and amphibians with webbed feet and long, whiskered snouts.
The day-night cycle here is at least three times as long as any of the Coalition's species are habituated to, so the entire city enters a "false nighttime" in the middle of the day, shuttering all the windows so that the locals can rest and reset their biological clocks. And in the middle of the night, the city is brightly lit for a "false day."
	The local work schedule has adapted to this unusual cycle, with the two true daytime periods serving the equivalent of the human work week, and the false daytime treated as a weekend, a time for socializing or working at home.
Ada is the home planet of Lovelace Labs, one of the most highly respected designers of starship systems and weaponry. Ada was originally settled as a mining planet, and the mines here still produce a steady stream of metal to supply the Labs and the many other industrial companies here.
	From above, the planet looks almost lifeless and barren. Most of the major cities on Ada are built into the walls of the canyons, where they are protected from the high winds and occasional dust storms that sweep across the surface.
The spaceport is built into the walls of a canyon which has been blasted out to create trenches that are hundreds of meters wide and deep, a network of flight lanes that are well marked out with lights and beacons.
	Behind the docking caves is a bustling subterranean city where bare rock and gleaming metal have been woven together in an architecture that is both functional and elegant. The lighting in the caverns varies over the course of the day to match the sunlight outside.
The homeworld of the Arach people, Ahr is a metropolitan world with nearly nine billion inhabitants, enough that they cannot all be fed by what this world produces. The government maintains a storehouse with a month's supply of food in each major metropolitan center, as well as a collection of bioreactors, built according to Kimek designs, that can produce a tasteless but nutritious paste as emergency rations in the unlikely event that shipments of food from off-world are somehow disrupted for a prolonged period of time.
A constant line of cargo barges and trucks streams through this spaceport city, collecting goods to be distributed to the outlying suburbs and neighboring cities. Inside the main terminal, members of all three Coalition species mix freely, but the Heliarch agents and interpreters here are all Arach.
	Carts carrying passengers and cargo whiz past at frightening speeds, expertly navigating to dodge the pedestrians.
At first glance, Aksaray appears to be a fairly generic moon formed from eons of dust and debris compressed into a tight ball by constant gravitational pressure. What is not commonplace is the presence of almost perfectly pyramidal piles of regolith scattered across the world. Querying an orbiting Remnant satellite suggests that these are believed to have been remote mining sites for mineral processing.
	A brief consultation of your navigational computer's economic database, however, indicates that all the minerals present in this variant of regolith are very common across the galaxy and have an extremely low value.
Albatross is a cold ocean world orbiting a small, cold sun. The first settlers on Albatross were anarchists who believed that in a society free from unnatural laws and constraints, everyone would happily and freely work for the common good. The next settlers were pirates who believed that a planet free from laws and constraints would be a great base of operations.
	The anarchist farming communes, each operating independently but trading with outsiders to gain necessary supplies, are clustered in the barely temperate climate near the equator. The pirate bases, having a much more ready source of supplies, are located wherever there are flat landing areas close to craggy, defensible mountains.
You are glad you put on a warm coat before leaving your ship. The wind blows in strong gusts down the streets of this small spaceport town. You pass by ranchers herding cattle, a few farmers driving old, rusted-out trucks full of produce, and a couple of shady figures huddled in an alleyway negotiating what looks like a drug deal. In the center of town is a small merchant's exchange and a couple of greasy spoon diners.
	The sign over the spaceport bar reads, "No Gods, No Masters." Below it in slightly smaller writing is another sign which reads, "No Cybernetic Implants. No Badgers, Weasels, Or Polecats." You have no idea what a "polecat" is.
At the height of the Alpha War, the government of the Deep constructed Alexandria as the galaxy's largest storehouse of human literature, scientific writing, and technology. It also houses a vast museum of cultural artifacts dating back to long before the start of the space age. Today the station is mostly populated by visitors looking for particularly arcane writings or information, and librarians who have devoted their lives to keeping the archives well-indexed and up to date.
	Entire sections of the station are off limits to ordinary visitors. There are many rumors about what those restricted areas contain.
The station's cavernous visitor center is by far the quietest spaceport you have ever been in. Many people are bustling back and forth, wheeling carts of old books or carrying data pads, but they are entirely silent except for the occasional startled outburst when a scholar, walking deep in thought or immersed in reading, accidentally collides with someone.
	From here, passageways lead off into the wings of the library in a veritable labyrinth of hallways, stairs, and library stacks. A few particularly heavy doors require key cards to enter, and others have no opening controls of any sort that you can see.
Alfheim is a world of wide grassy plains, deserts, a few small oceans, and scattered rainforests. Not a pleasant enough planet to support large cities, it is instead mostly a site for oil drilling and manufacturing. So far only a tiny fraction of the surface has been developed, mostly clustered around the sites where the largest oil deposits have been discovered.
	Settlements show up as small bright points on the dark side of the planet - not from city lights, but from natural gas burnoff at the drilling stations.
The spaceport is in the middle of a field of oil derricks so vast that from above, the desert seemed to be covered in spiky gray fur. The spaceport itself is a soaring canopy, made to look like a tent, or sails on a ship. But it is built of a sturdy composite of plastic and carbon fiber, and coated in reflective plastic. Inside, hovercraft and massive sand-crawlers are bringing cargo to and from the refineries and factories scattered across the planet's surface.
Alix is a small moon of the gas giant Pathera, lacking a breathable atmosphere but rich in minerals. While settlements on the moon have been destroyed to the extent that all that remains are debris scattered across the terrain, some automated facilities are still functioning and see a constant flow of cargo drones that stop by the moon to gather raw materials before quickly bringing them to the nearby station's reserves.
This Earth-like planet has been settled both by human beings and by the Hai, the species that controls this region of space. The human settlements are relatively small, mostly farming communities founded by people who came here to escape the chaos and uncertainty of human space. More substantial urban settlements exist, particularly near the spaceport, but from the air they appear to exist within strict boundaries.
In the spaceport, a handful of human merchants and colonists wander about amid throngs of Hai - vaguely squirrel-like aliens who are somewhat shorter than the average human being, but make up for it with an abundance of energy. You feel a little bit like an adult wading through a sea of hyperactive children as you try to locate the commodity exchange and the other services offered here.
This is a complete Quarg ringworld, the product of millennia of construction effort which has consumed every other stellar object in this system in order to provide the raw materials. The inner edge of the ring is filled with solar panels, hydroponic gardens, living quarters, and sunlit common spaces. The outer edge contains hangars and docks for ships, and storage facilities for cargo.
	Massive station-keeping thrusters on the ring's exterior keep its orbit from becoming unstable.
If this section of the ring is any indication, there must be trillions of Quarg here. Since the construction work on the ring has long since ended, many of them seem to spend their time with creative or scientific endeavors instead. The spaceport is decorated with artwork of every imaginable kind: sculptures, mobiles, paintings, music, and even one hallway that cycles through various artificial odors, some of them intensely unpleasant to your human senses.
Amazon is a lush, green, tropical world, a popular tourist destination for many who live in this region of space. The indigenous forests are dense and hardy enough that growing human crops here is a constant battle, and none of the native plants or fruits are edible. Aside from tourism, most of the planet's income is from petroleum mining.
	The forests are home to a stunning variety of wildlife, some of it dangerous but most of it entirely indifferent to human presence. Plant life is so abundant here that even the oceans are green rather than blue, teeming with kelp and algae.
The Amazon spaceport is unique, built on top of tall pillars more than fifty meters above the ground, directly above the forest canopy. The landing pads, buildings, and catwalks between them are laid out in a random branching pattern, forming a shape that from above looks almost organic. Directly over the railings, you can see brightly colored birds circling beneath your feet.
Angko is a massive industrial world, with most cities on its surface supporting vast manufacturing sectors, factories, and warehouses. The level of industrial progress has not gone without its environmental impacts, however. At some time in the planet's past, the ice caps melted, causing sea levels to rise globally. The Bunrodeans have since moved to less environmentally negative practices, but the damage was already done, and the planet hasn't been the same since.
The main spaceport of Angko is in a precarious situation: established ages ago on a coastline, the oceans of the planet have risen significantly enough that the entire region would be submerged in water were it not for the massive sea walls that enclose the city. Even with the flooding of the city being a constant concern should the sea walls fail, the Bunrodeans have determined that it's still easier to keep maintaining the main spaceport rather than move it to high ground.
Antipode is a world of creeping glaciers and year-round snow, orbiting far enough from a dim star that even when the sun breaks through the clouds, it brings little warmth. The few settlements that exist here are built near surface deposits of rare earth metals that were discovered recently, and that are mined for use in electronics and equipment throughout this sector.
	The inhabitants of Antipode are among the best downhill skiers in the galaxy, and they have made some attempts to draw off-world tourists to the ski resorts here, but the weather is so hostile that they have had very little success.
The spaceport consists of a single enormous warehouse. The air inside is cold, but you are glad to get out of the howling wind. In one corner is a counter advertising skiing adventures, but no one is staffing it; they must be out to lunch or taking the day off.
	As with many of these small spaceports, it seems that the only option for food is a pub, but the smells coming from it are enticing; for once, you may have found a spaceport bar whose chef actually knows how to cook.
Arabia is an uncomfortably hot and humid world of deserts, savanna, and a few small and scattered rainforests. Large herds of bison-like animals roam the plains, providing the locals with a steady source of food. Occasional stampedes, involving tens of thousands of these animals, have been known to level entire towns here.
	Aside from hunting, most of the industry takes the form of harvesting and refining petrochemicals to make plastics, polymers, and oils. In some parts of Arabia, the pumpjacks outnumber the people a hundred to one.
The spaceport consists mostly of a wide, open field paved in asphalt, the cheapest material available here. The pavement shimmers with heat, and is pockmarked with divots where ships' landing gear has sunk several centimeters in to the surface.
	At the center of the pavement is a small cluster of refrigerated sheds and stacks of crates carrying various goods for trade; a few armed guards patrol around them to prevent theft. A food truck is parked nearby, serving burgers and tacos to the port workers and to the crews of the few starships that are parked here at the moment.
Arachne Station is privately owned by Tarazed Corporation, and there are no services available here for people who are not Tarazed employees.
Now that the Korath are gone, the oceans on this planet have begun to teem with fish and other living creatures once again, and the levels of dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide are slowly swinging back into balance. Species of algae and bacteria that are able to metabolize the plastics and chemicals that the Korath left behind have spread throughout the oceans.
Arroharg is a low-gravity moon that the Quarg have converted to some sort of harvesting grounds. Massive machines that dwarf your ship seem to be displacing mountainous formations while smaller ones collect from the zones left behind. Most of the architecture here is Quarg-like and is not designed in a way that welcomes visitors very comfortably. The lower levels of the outpost seem to dig deeper into the surface of the moon, but the farther they go down the more complex they become. There's no telling how deep into the moon they go, as they are restricted to anyone but the Quarg.
A few Quarg greet you with astonished expressions, but kindly assist you in anything you have trouble with due to the spaceport being designed for them. They communicate mostly in gestures and facial expressions, although this is sometimes hard to decipher. It seems they aren't used to outside visitors here and don't speak your language.
Asgard was one of the first worlds to be settled in the Deep. It is now home to many crowded cities, with soaring skyscrapers that are made of lightweight composite materials rather than the steel and concrete so commonly used elsewhere.
	This is also the home of Deep Sky, a manufacturing firm that produces a wide variety of expensive and useful starship equipment.
As with many of the worlds here in the Deep, walking around this spaceport feels like making a visit to the future. Everything is immaculately clean. The port is a single building reminiscent of a sand castle or termite mound: a jumble of spires, each a slightly different shape, all piled on top of each other. Docking bays open on various sides of the spires in a haphazard arrangement. It feels like this building is an organic thing, rather than the work of human hands.
	The locals hurry by, seemingly oblivious to your presence; the only people who meet your gaze are your fellow wide-eyed visitors.
The thin, unbreathable atmosphere and low gravity mean that Ashy Reach will never become popular as a residential world, but it serves a useful role as a hub for shipping and commercial exchange. There is only one settlement here, built around the spaceport, and consisting mostly of pressurized underground caverns. Outside the settlement, the planet's surface is drab and almost lifeless.
Only a handful of towers, most of them windowless, protrude above the planet's surface at the center of the spaceport settlement. The hangars and warehouses are all underground. The surface is visible through a few thick acrylic polymer windows on the lower levels of the towers. Lit by the glow of the gas giant that this moon orbits, the towers form a surreal landscape, like a city abandoned and only halfway formed.
This is a pristine and perfectly habitable world, with warm oceans and a temperate climate. The land is dominated by large reptiles similar to the dinosaurs that roamed the continents of ancient Earth. Some of the land reptiles are over twenty meters in length, and the sea holds monsters more than twice that size.
	Deep in the jungles near the equator, small mammals are working hard to avoid being eaten by the great lizards, and to survive for long enough that they will be able to evolve into the dominant life form.
This is not a particularly warm world, but it is the best that the first Remnant refugees were able to find when they explored the Ember Waste. It is here that they built their capital, in a deep valley that is almost always shrouded in clouds. In meadows farther up the mountain slopes, a few particularly hardy food crops are grown, but for the most part the Remnant rely on artificial greenhouses or cultured yeast for protein supplements. Remnant cuisine is unlikely to ever become a draw for tourists, even if their isolation here is broken.
The oldest buildings in the Remnant capital city harken back to classic human architecture, with stone facades and columns reminiscent of ancient Rome. But as you walk outward toward the more recent additions, the buildings become less and less recognizably human, with curved organic shapes and hundreds of overhanging walkways and balconies. It is as if the layers left behind by centuries of habitation are a frozen record of the slow transition of Remnant culture into something bizarre and almost alien.
Babiali's surface is a bona fide example of cataclysm. Ice and rock extends from horizon to horizon, with vast networks of cracks and fissures suggesting it was subject to some kind of sudden force fairly recently in its geological history.
	At present, Babiali has a regular stream of mining and research craft systematically flying over the crust looking for rare metals or anything else of value. Despite the activity, no one has bothered to set up anything resembling a spaceport.
This frozen water world is reminiscent of Titan back in Sol: the surface is little more than a shattered wasteland of ice and the occasional rock outcropping, but the unbreathably thin atmosphere contains countless tantalizing traces of chemicals that suggest that something more might exist below the surface.
	Unlike Titan, however, Baianus is regularly wracked by both waves of heat and energy, and a stay of any length on the surface is likely to see waves of auroras accompanied by glows and sparks rippling across the terrain. Your environmental system strongly recommends remaining inside your ship whenever ion storms are active.
This idyllic planet is home to almost as many Arachi as their homeworld in the neighboring system. It is also home to House Plumtab, the Arach guild in charge of banks and finance. Because pretty much every other sector of the Arach economy depends on loans from House Plumtab and trades stock on their equity exchanges, this House is quite influential throughout Arach space.
The central concourse of the spaceport is reminiscent of a major stock exchange on a human world, with video screens everywhere displaying constantly fluctuating line graphs and lists of numbers and symbols. The only difference is that the graphs run top to bottom, rather than left to right.
	Every once in a while, one of the Arachi will cause a minor pedestrian traffic jam by abruptly stopping to look at one of the displays.
Although it is in Arach territory, Belug's Plunge is a cold enough planet that most of the native population is Saryds rather than Arachi. Most of the industry here focuses on mining metals and exotic elements to be used in building new extensions to the Rings. There is also a Saryd materials research lab trying to learn how to duplicate the advanced composites used by the Quarg. But Belug's Plunge is best known for the Academy, where cadets for the Heliarch defense forces are trained.
The central spaceport terminal is a large chamber with a hushed atmosphere reminiscent of a library's reading room. In small nooks along the periphery, small groups are engaged in quiet conversation. Most cargo is carried by robotic carts, wheeling around on a floor so smooth that the only time they make noise is when they politely speak up to warn people to get out of their way.
	Occasionally a group of cadets wearing yellow baldrics marches through, stepping as lightly as they can to avoid disturbing the quiet.
Big Sky is a warm and fertile world, teeming with indigenous life. It would be an ideal farming world if it were not for the fact that the native plants are so abundant and so well adapted to this environment that they can take over an untended field in a matter of months. Farmers typically start the growing season by slashing and burning the plants that have taken root in their fields over the winter, and even so they must be constantly vigilant for weeds throughout the summer.
	The Big Sky government recently financed a major project to genetically engineer a goat species so ravenous that it can control the growth of local vegetation. These "ubergoats" pose so great a threat to the typical biosphere that they are export-controlled as biological weapons.
The landing pads here are being gradually consumed by the local plant life. In most places grass and ivy has crept out to cover at least a meter of the pad on all sides, and every small crack or crevice has been colonized by moss and by the roots of larger plants.
	In places the forest has been cleared to make roads leading to the nearby farming villages, but in most directions all you see is green. It is a beautiful sight, and oddly peaceful, but you know what a nuisance these plants are to the locals.
Bivrost is the one planet in the Deep where heavy metals are relatively abundant. What began as a mining colony has developed into one of the most prosperous worlds in the region.
	Unlike most worlds that are strip mined for uranium, the environment outside the cities is relatively unspoiled. Strict controls are placed on the emissions and waste products of the local manufacturing plants to ensure that it stays that way.
The spaceport is within sight of the capital city, Rainbridge, but far enough away that the sound of ships taking off and landing will not be too disturbing to the locals. The warehouse space here is underground, level after level of tunnels and caverns stocked with lead-lined trunks filled with uranium and plastic crates of manufactured goods. Above ground, the spaceport is entirely enclosed within a dome of glass and plastic composite.
	A video screen plays a looping advertisement from the local chamber of commerce. A prosperous-looking man is saying, "I knew there was a fortune to be made in uranium - but I was afraid my children would start glowing in the dark."
Bloodsea is nearly uninhabited, except for a few pirate outposts. Its name comes from the planet's oceans, which are blood-red due to rhodophyte algae. Although the climate is temperate and there are many white sand beaches, no one comes here hoping to go swimming.
	The pirates have no industry of their own, but instead make a living by reselling stolen cargo from raids on merchant fleets.
When you landed your ship near one of the larger outposts, no one even came out to greet you or to check your paperwork - not that anyone on a pirate world would care about such things. In the center of town is an open-air marketplace where large men armed with large guns stand guard over piles of crates, while others examine the wares that are for sale and haggle over prices.
	The local slang incorporates threats of extreme violence as a seemingly meaningless verbal tic. "Hey, I'm gonna cut off your fingers one by one until you buy a meat patty!" a vendor calls out cheerfully as you pass. "First one's free, and I'll tie a knot in your spine if you don't like it."
The surface of Bloptab's Furnace is rich in mineral deposits but too hot for any but the hardiest plants and insects to survive. The locals live deep underground in caverns carved out by the same automated mining machines that are used for collecting ore on the surface. When maintenance is needed for the surface robots, crews of engineers will wait until nightfall and then emerge from underground and do their best to complete the repairs before sunrise.
This is not a planet that any sane tourist would visit. The artificial underground dwelling places are so alike and so monotonous that it's no different than being on a space station, except without the stunning views that a station affords.
	Nearly everyone you see here is an Arach, and they are walking around with an air of purpose that suggests that they are locals hard at work, rather than visitors to this planet.
Dozens of small cities dot the valleys and hilltops of this warm and pleasant forest world. Due to a high tech manufacturing industry, there is plenty of work here for all the inhabitants, who hail from planets throughout Coalition space. With broad streets, ample parks, and gleaming skyscrapers, the cities bear witness to the very best of what Coalition society can accomplish when the three species work together.
The spaceport here has become a popular destination for tourists interested in exotic foods. The blend of smells drifting from the many restaurants, cafes, and open-air markets is almost overwhelming, and not always pleasant to your human senses; the Kimek, in particular, appear to consider food that has already been partly broken down by decomposition to be a delicacy.
Blue Interior is a strikingly beautiful earthlike world, covered mostly in oceans but with regions of rainforest, desert, mountains, and frozen tundra. Billions of Kimek live here, and there are also large Saryd and Arach populations in the cities whose climates are most agreeable to them. The Coalition often presents this world as a model of how their three species can benefit from sharing space with each other.
This is a truly cosmopolitan spaceport, with members of all three Coalition species mixing freely, conversing and doing business with each other. There are also a large number of Heliarch interpreters and mediators mingling with the crowds, helping those interactions to go as smoothly as possible.
This station was mothballed sometime in the last sixty thousand years. The docking area has an atmosphere, and a status panel indicates that the station's generators are functional but shut down, with standby mechanisms running on solar power alone.
The sunlight that filters through Bluestone's atmosphere is too dim and reddish for ordinary Earth plants to thrive. The native plants, mostly grasses and lichens, have adapted their own unique chlorophyll-like molecules in response.
	Bluestone is sparsely populated. Aside from one small research village dedicated to cultivating edible hybrid crops that can grow on similar worlds, most of the industry here is focused on drilling and refining oil to make a variety of plastics.
Aside from the metal roofs on a few of the largest warehouses, the spaceport buildings are constructed largely of durable plastic resin, pre-cast into interlocking beams and panels.
	There is a small pub in the center of the port, with its exterior walls painted a cheerful yellow. All the other buildings are the same red-brown color of the raw plastic.
Bosunothro is a major mining world, and also home to some of the largest shipyards in Bunrodean space. Larger shipyards than the ones found here only exist on the capital world of Erabuthro.
	The planet's success as a mining world can be owed to its many deep canyons found across most of the planet's above water surface, which allow for easier access to mineral-rich deposits in the crust. The major shipyards developed alongside these mines allowed for easy transportation of material directly to the shipyards instead of requiring lengthy journeys through space.
The main spaceport of Bosunothro is almost entirely taken up by shipyards. That area which isn't dedicated to the shipyards is dedicated to the transportation of materials to them. This leaves very little space left over for the usual amenities that you would expect of a spaceport. There is only one single small outfitter tucked in between two large shipyards near the edge of the spaceport; the shipyards must receive direct shipments of the more advanced outfits that they need.
All the land near Bounty's equator is desert, but closer to the poles, the weather is temperate and there is enough rain for farming. The land near the northern pole is sparsely populated, but the other hemisphere is quite well developed, with many of the inhabitants now working in factories that produce fancy watches and intricate electronic components.
	The focus on skilled manufacturing has had a dramatic effect on both the local education system and the sports scene. One can garner great respect - and a sizable income - simply by being the best at folding tiny paper cranes by microscope.
The spaceport is not fancy, but it is serviceable: the landing pads are very level and show only minor signs of wear and tear, and the one warehouse is tiny but recently built, and its roof is in good repair. Next to it is a marketplace building, with three walls and a pitched roof, and the fourth side open for people and trucks to come and go. An enterprising cook is selling lamb kebabs from a small grill and cart in one corner of the building.
Bourne is a well-developed industrial world that was first settled four centuries ago. Its cities are home to some of the richest individuals in this section of the galaxy, but also home to tens of thousands of homeless people, and many others whose factory jobs are barely providing enough to make ends meet.
	Outside the cities, the climate is somewhat dry, but the deep valleys and some coastal regions are suitable for farming. Very little of the planet remains that is untouched by human hands.
The spaceport on Bourne is a collection of granite and steel towers with platforms for ships to land. The tops of the towers are blackened by factory soot and etched by acid rain, but the granite gives them a timeless, classic look very unlike many of the ports you have visited.
	The port authorities warned you when you landed to be careful of pickpockets, so you are guarding your wallet very closely.
This is a farming world. In the century prior to their discovery of space flight, billions of Kimek starved in a series of increasingly severe global famines. Fourteen thousand years later, their culture is still haunted by fear of not having enough food, and in response they have developed enough farms in their region of space to feed a population three times their size. Much of the food that they produce each year is either put into storage or simply recycled back into fertilizer for next year's crop.
The farms on Brass Second operate on a colossal scale. The spaceport is not the sort of rustic farmers' market typical of other farming worlds; it is a major commercial enterprise, complete with cargo-loading robots, climate-controlled warehouses, and a supply chain management system that ensures that fresh produce works its way to the head of the shipping queue in time for it to reach its destination unspoiled.
This is the first world that the Saryds colonized outside of their own solar system. Although somewhat colder than their native planet, it developed into a thriving metropolitan world. The original settlers planned out in exacting detail how every part of the planet's land mass should be used, in order to satisfy their aesthetic ideal of blending residential areas with parks and farms. Large areas have also been set aside as undeveloped wilderness.
The spaceport is in what, by Saryd standards, is a major city, with scattered skyscrapers surrounded by forests and grassy park land along with smaller dwellings and occasional factories or power plants. The city is built on either side of one of this continent's largest rivers, a few kilometers downstream from a dam and hydroelectric plant. Here, the river cuts through a deep gorge, and the graceful bridges that cross the gorge are often shrouded in mist.
Pirates who have struck it rich dream of retiring on Buccaneer Bay. It is a warm ocean planet, with many places reminiscent of the islands in the ancient Caribbean where humanity's greatest pirate fleets sailed.
	Many of the inhabitants are in fact not pirates, but their descendants, and these children and grand-children of anarchist outlaws have built a system of regional government that oversees hospitals, schools, and other public services, all created without funding from the Republic or taxes paid to it. The planet even sports its own shipyard, although many of the ships built here are, not surprisingly, based on designs pirated from the Syndicate and Republic shipyards.
This is the sort of spaceport you picture in your head when you think of pirates. Half the storefronts are bars, and rum seems to be on the menu everywhere. It is almost like the stories of ancient Earth, except that the eye patches are cybernetic implants and the peg legs are motorized prostheses. Swarthy, dangerous-looking women glance at you as you pass by, and scantily clad men crowd around the bars, which is what you seem to remember the stories said it was like on Earth, too, although there it may have been the other way around.
This asteroid has seen hundreds of thousands of years of excavation done by swarms of Ka'sei drones. Although its size rivals that of a small moon, a large section has been hollowed out by the Builders to be filled with iridium, presumably as a long term storage facility. Due to its very low gravity, the asteroid is permanently covered in clouds of dust that hover only a few meters above the surface.
Despite being a pristine world for colonizing, Bunthro appears to be almost entirely untouched by the Bunrodea. Aside from the spaceport, there are hardly any structures on the planet, most that you can find being small shrines built atop high locations such as hills or mountains.
	Permission to land is even more restricted than the capital; the entire world of Bunthro appears to be a religious site of some sort to the Bunrodea.
The spaceport is practically nonexistent, consisting of little more than a few landing pads, a refueling station, and a few buildings for shelter. Beyond the landing pads are paths that branch out into the wilderness, presumably off toward the shrines that can be spotted from above.
	The few Bunrodeans who staff the spaceport don't look particularly happy to see you here, but they give you no trouble as they refuel your ship.
Burthen is only sparsely populated due to crushingly high gravity. The locals - exceptionally strong and short - take a stoic pride in this misery and the many health issues that result.
	The land in most regions is suitable for farming, but mining of heavy metals is the primary industry, and the source of ready wealth that ties people to this uncomfortable planet.
	Some of the excavation vehicles used here are as large and costly as a capital starship and as noisy as a volcano. Vast scars of strip mines span across the landscape. On this planet the environment is something to be endured rather than cherished.
You could feel the oppressive force of this planet's gravity as soon as you landed. The spaceport is a small cluster of single-story buildings. More cargo seems to be handled by robotic vehicles than by actual human operators, but the few people walking past you are all much shorter than you are. You feel like a giant, clearly out of place.
Judging by Byruca's distance from its host star, you would assume that the planet would be habitable, albeit a little on the hot side. But as you approach, you find nothing but a lifeless wasteland; the surface of the planet looks as though it once harbored a teeming ecosystem, but now there's nothing but dead trees and deserts.
	As you observe more of the planet, you even managed to find evidence of intelligent life in the form of entire towns and cities of buildings, but they all seem long abandoned.
	Your ship's sensors detect high levels of ultraviolet radiation, and cursory scans of the atmosphere reveal a distinct lack of ozone or any other gas that would prevent the nearby star's UV light from reaching the surface.
When the first members of the Remnant discovered this region of space, Caelian was the only habitable world they found with enough insolation to be able to operate solar-powered factories and bioreactors. The first settlements were scattered widely, with the houses hidden underground in order to be less visible from space, because they feared that the Alphas would overrun human space and eventually find their way into the Waste. Centuries later, when they learned that the Alpha Wars had ended, they began to expand the factories and settlements more openly.
Nearly all members of the Remnant are dark-skinned, either from exposure to high levels of ultraviolet radiation or because that is what their first ancestors who came here looked like. So, they walk around this spaceport village without much fear of the scorching desert sun, bringing supplies back and forth to the houses and to the flat clay pavement of the landing zone. Aside from some camels that the settlers brought with them, there are very few animals here.
Calda is a tropical resort world, a pleasant place to unwind after a few days skiing on its sister planet, Vail. The most popular tourist destination is the hot springs, and the spa complexes that have been built up around them. Constant pesticide use has nearly eliminated insect pests. Because of the uncomfortably warm and humid summer months, the very rich view Calda more as a tourist destination than as a place to live.
	In Calda's early days as a spa planet, a nearly silent eruption of carbon dioxide filled a resort valley and suffocated the whole population. This incident shocked the Paradise Worlds and led to a very large drop in tourism here. Fortunately for Calda's economy, this effect ceased within six months, which was about how long it took for most potential tourists to forget about the incident.
This is one of the few planets in this sector whose spaceport does not include private hangars, or at least gangway tunnels connecting to ships that land. The reason, of course, is so that visitors can experience the warm and pleasant air the moment they disembark. There is, however, a network of canvas-covered awnings branching out from the main buildings, offering shade and protection from the weather.
	Inside, the counters for hotel shuttles and rental vehicles (including hovercraft and helicopters) are far more prominent than the amenities that would interest a merchant captain.
Canyon is a large world, with gravity near the high end of what human beings can comfortably bear. Much of its surface is sandstone, leading scientists to believe that the planet was once home to large oceans, before some cataclysmic event, perhaps a rogue star drifting through the system, caused much of the planet's water to boil away. The few settlers who live here mostly farm the deep canyons; the mesas above are dry and almost lifeless.
	The angular rock formations that cover most of the mesa land are identified in local mythology as the ruins of an unspeakably vast and ancient alien city. A gullible tourist can find any number of opportunities to tour these alleged sites. Off-world science has been largely skeptical of these claims.
The spaceport is a wide, flat stone field with no individual landing spots marked out; you're simply responsible for finding an unoccupied space large enough for your ship. There are only a few starships parked here.
	A half kilometer away from the field is a small village with a marketplace and a pub. In the village, you can recognize the locals because of their stout, muscular stature; you are taller than almost everyone here.
The harsh landscape of Capitoline is a demonstration of the forces of nature at work. Lava flows and eruptions are regularly seen, and seismic activity is a daily occurrence. As a result, the surface is of comparatively recent origin. Despite this, you can spot a small survey station in the middle of an old lava field. In response to your landing computer's query, the transponder issues a terse statement about the automated scientific station and a warning that its defense systems are active.
	Heeding the warning, you land over the horizon from the station. Stepping out onto the surface, you can feel the rumble of the planet beneath you. Despite the ever-present seismic heaving, it feels like you can pick up a subtle pulse in the vibrations. The impression never goes away, but neither you nor your sensors can determine an actual pattern.
Carbuncle is a tiny station owned and operated by Lovelace Labs. You assume that like most such stations, it is primarily a deuterium refinery, but aside from the docking bay the rest of the station is closed off to visitors. Given the reputation of Lovelace Labs for exotic research, there could be almost anything beyond those sealed-off bulkheads.
The Saryds prefer to build their largest factories on sun-drenched, uninhabitable worlds, in order to allow more hospitable planets to be used for residences and recreation. Where possible, their factories harness solar power: either using mirrors to concentrate sunlight for solar foundries, or collecting energy through large fields of solar panels. The factories are almost entirely maintained by robots, which are capable not only of repairing damage but also of constructing entire new factories according to predefined plans.
	The solar collectors are mounted on frames about ten meters above the shifting sand dunes. In addition to turning to face the sun, they can be turned upside-down as necessary to dump off any sand that accumulates on them.
Apart from one large, solid module, very little of this space station remains intact: the cloud of debris surrounding the core makes docking with it very difficult, and one side of the station even appears to have been blown up. The other part, however, has suffered much less damage, and the surface bristles with dozens of well-maintained turrets.
Celeatis is a barren planet with mountains covering most of its surface. Even in the few flat highlands, the terrain is too sterile for any kind of vegetation to grow naturally. On some slopes, the outline of an outpost can still be recognized, but they are all uninhabited: some of the villages have been partially destroyed, and large amounts of dust cover the remains to the point that the original color can't be recognized anymore.
Celestial Third is the breadbasket of Kimek space. Most of its land mass is used for farming, augmented by seaweed farms and fisheries in the oceans and factories near the equator producing yeast and bacterial cultures as nutritional supplements. The first settlers came here more than thirteen thousand years ago, at a time when their home world had run out of arable land for farming and food was desperately needed.
The constant stream of freighters passing through this spaceport is a testament to how much food is needed to feed the densely populated Kimek worlds, in particular their homeworld in the neighboring star system. The city that hosts the spaceport has also become something of a tourist destination for those with adventurous culinary tastes; restaurants here serve recipes native to each of the Coalition species, along with some dishes that blend their three cuisines in unique and sometimes surprising ways.
Charon Station provides hyperspace fuel for much of the southern galactic rim. It is a tiny, cramped, and aging station, with twice as many workers here as it was originally designed for.
	Centuries ago, before much of the Dirt Belt was settled, this was the first spot below Algorel where merchant caravan fleets from the Deep could stop over on their way to the worlds farther up the Rim.
	The close quarters have fostered an extreme scrupulosity about personal space. It is unnerving to walk down a densely crowded hallway and fail to make eye contact with anyone.
The refinery here operates in shifts, non-stop, so there are always people coming and going in the hallways and docking bays. The cafeteria is so crowded that many workers are just standing up against the walls eating off their trays instead of trying to find a place to sit.
	Every few minutes, light flashes in through one of the windows from welders outside in space suits trying to keep the aging hull in perfect shape. Others drift around outside checking up on the solar panels and replacing burnt-out modules.
Charybdis Station is privately owned by the Syndicate. It is a massive deuterium refinery, with harvester drones constantly flying in and out to scoop hydrogen gas out of the upper atmosphere of the planet below. If you need to repair or refuel in this system, you will need to visit the neighboring world of Delve, instead of this station.
Chiron is the only planet outside the solar system that was colonized by humanity prior to the discovery of the hyperdrive. It is now the second most populous planet in the Republic, with many sprawling cities and a burgeoning pollution problem.
	Although Earth still has the most prestigious universities in the galaxy, Chiron has become the de-facto leader in higher education, catering to those who value excellent teaching more highly than an illustrious name. As a result, off-world students form a noticeable fraction of the population.
There are two spaceports on Chiron. The Old Port was built back when it was first settled, and was placed in a desert region, far from where people would want to live, so that they would not be as affected by the fallout from the nuclear propulsion that was used in the first, pre-hyperspace starships.
	The New Port, on the other hand, is in the center of New Sydney, one of Chiron's largest cities. Its soaring architecture and gleaming mirrored glass is intended to make a clear statement, that Chiron is everything Earth is not: clean, modern, prosperous.
The Saryds established a trading colony here in the early days of their era of space exploration, when they first made contact with the Quarg. When the Quarg gave them the gift of a small number of jump drives, in order to build relationships with the neighboring species, Chosen Nexus grew into a far larger and more important trading hub.
	It has now been many millennia since the Quarg were driven out and free travel began between the members of the Coalition, and Chosen Nexus now has nearly as many Arach and Kimek inhabitants as native Saryds.
This is a truly cosmopolitan spaceport, a city where the distinctive architectures of the Coalition's species are blended together and where the food or lodgings unique to each of them can easily be found. Cargo drones hover over the landing pads, constantly loading and unloading the merchant ships that are parked here as their captains arrange to buy or sell cargo.
	Mingling among the crowds, Heliarch representatives wearing golden bands as a mark of their authority serve both as translators and as peacekeepers.
Cipi's forestries and mountains are a suitable place for the Gegno Scin's less active population, home to more quiet industries. The population of this planet is limited, and architecture is built high in mountain ranges to avoid hurting the natural landscapes of the planet. This provides the Scin with healthy crop and hunting seasons to supply their main population without the interference of polluting industry.
The spaceport is built protruding off the side of a mountain, supported underneath by several pylons in a half-oval formation. The valley down below is extremely narrow, which seems to invite Scin fighters to test their skills. You spot a few Halites zipping through the valley while dodging between the supporting pylons before pulling upward and flying past the edge of the port. Despite their speed, they are not particularly loud.
Clark is a recently settled world, and most of its surface remains covered in dense forests and uninhabited mountains. Because clearing new land is so difficult, agriculture here has not grown far beyond the level of subsistence farming. But the temperate climate has drawn tens of millions of settlers, most of whom work in factories that have been planted here by off-world corporations to take advantage of the cheap labor.
	The low cost of living and virtually zero unemployment rate make poverty and crime relatively rare occurrences. Instead there is a pioneering spirit, a startup-world attitude that anything is attainable with a bit of hard work and frugality.
The spaceport is at the heart of one of Clark's largest cities, surrounded by smokestacks and factories. There are a few hangars owned by different corporations where their cargo ships can load and unload, but you are relegated to a set of concrete landing pads farther from the main buildings. Large trucks rumble by carrying carts loaded down with cargo crates.
	In the central building, dozens of workers fill a large cafeteria with several stations serving different types of food. The mood here feels boisterous and energetic, very different from most of the Dirt Belt worlds you have visited.
About a decade ago, a mining corporation from Zug planted a colony on Clink for harvesting some rare earth minerals that are present in this moon's crust due to its unusually high rate of asteroid impacts. The atmosphere here is too thin to breathe without a respirator, and because of the low gravity, the dust raised by the mining operations hangs perpetually in the air.
	The miners who work here are a tight-knit group, since most of them were part of the original colonization team. They are not particularly open to outsiders, and the facilities here are so rudimentary that they do not even stock fuel for visiting ships.
Cloudfire's atmosphere is unusually hazy, with almost constant cloud cover, making agriculture unproductive here even though it is a warm and damp environment. There are several major cities here that were abandoned centuries ago, due to conflict with the Unfettered. The one major city that remains is the closest thing the Hai have to a military base, with new supplies of weapons and ammunition constantly pouring in from the rest of Hai space.
The spaceport has massive hangars and advanced repair facilities designed to accommodate the largest Hai warships. Where a fleet has just returned from a recent battle, the hangars are lit with flashes from robotic welders as damaged hull plates are swapped out for fresh ones and weakened joints are reinforced. The actual process of building these warships, however, takes place on the Hai homeworld, where the facilities will not be vulnerable to attack.
In the early mornings on Cold Horizon, the trees are often coated in a thin layer of glittering frost that burns away a few hours after sunrise. In the short summer season, flocks of migratory birds arrive in the forest, bringing a cacophony of music and a riot of color to the otherwise serene woodlands.
	Half a billion Saryds live here, drawn not so much by the planet's resources, which are scarce, as by its natural beauty.
The spaceport on Cold Horizon is only a tiny village; most of the natives prefer to stay as far as possible from the bustle and confusion of interstellar life. The spaceport is also a railway hub, with trains departing from here to bring tourists to and from the larger population centers in the forest, on the shore, and far up in the mountains.
Much of Cool Forest's land mass is covered by the sort of temperate woodlands that the Saryds prefer to build their residential neighborhoods in. The total population is over a billion, but living in small settlements so well integrated with the surrounding forest that from space only a few major cities are visible.
The spaceport here is a major city, with a continuous stream of cargo transports bringing goods manufactured on Cool Forest's sister planet, Diligent Hand. Here, some final assembly, testing, and repackaging is performed before those goods are shipped out to the rest of Saryd space and beyond.
Cornucopia is a mostly agrarian world, and like several of its neighbors it has been inhabited since the early days of interstellar travel, when settlers seeking to get as far as possible from old Earth and its troubles landed here.
	Through careful stewardship and attention to the rhythms and balances of nature, generation after generation of farmers have transformed this world into one of the most fertile in human space. The Cornucopia College of Agriculture is famous, and justly so.
	From orbit, most of the landmass seems covered with a bizarre pixelated pattern. On approach, this resolves into a vast patchwork of fields and irrigation circles.
The spaceport on Cornucopia is a set of massive hangars in the center of a wide-open plain. Before leaving your ship you had to sign several documents regarding the use and disposal of various chemicals used in ship operations, and the department of agriculture requires that any luggage you bring on or off-world be submitted to a scan for biological material.
	When you leave your hangar, you find yourself in an immense farmers' market, with hundreds of fruits and grains that you do not even know words for. The smell of this world is rich and earthy - you feel like you could almost receive all the nourishment your body needs just by breathing this air.
The Corral of Meblumem is home to two major industries: uranium mining, and longcow ranching. The long lifetime of the longcows means that their bodies can easily accumulate dangerous loads of heavy metals if exposed to them, so the two industries are kept separated by conservation zones dozens of kilometers wide. The dark strips of primal forests separating the red-brown pit mines from the tan and light green of the pastures makes the land look like a stained-glass patchwork from above.
The spaceport is a small facility, a five-story tower and some warehouses surrounded by landing pads, with tall fences around them to make sure that a herd of longcows does not accidentally wander in. Outside the fences, longcows mill about like hundred-ton centipedes, and visiting spacecraft are strictly required to approach using repulsors only rather than their main thrusters to avoid spooking the cattle.
Covert is home to a powerful mining cartel, operating outside the control of Republic law or any other external authority. It is rumored to be one of the few planets in human space where weapons-grade uranium and plutonium is mined and enriched. Any goods for sale here were most likely produced by slave labor, often by survivors of ships that have been captured by pirates. A massive pirate fleet is docked on the outskirts of the spaceport, a warning to any private pilot who might think of cheating or opposing the cartel.
From the moment you landed, you have been followed by a pair of security guards with earpieces and laser guns. The spaceport is one enormous building, with square, straight hallways and featureless walls, and nearly every door you pass is locked. Cameras at each hallway intersection pivot to watch as you approach. This is simultaneously one of the most secure spaceports you have visited, and one of the most dangerous, although if you do not do anything to provoke the animosity of the cartel, you will probably be able to leave in peace.
At a distance, Crataegusa has a plain appearance, with linear shear cloud lines circling the planet. Beneath the surface, however, the atmosphere is a turbulent maelstrom of cyclonic winds at odds with the surface appearance.
	As you skim through the clouds your sensors report intense energy fluctuations from all directions, some of which echo the readings from the wormholes.
Crossroads is a thoroughly unbeautiful planet. The scrawny local vegetation has blue and purple leaves, shocking to your human eyes, and grows only reluctantly, leaving the land looking like a blighted wasteland.
	The Syndicate's vast operation strip mining for uranium ore does nothing to improve this situation. They say that sandstorms were frequent here even before the Syndicate arrived, but the storms have gotten far worse in recent years, with some storms now reaching several kilometers high and dozens of kilometers in diameter.
The spaceport is marked out with radio beacons to allow ships to land or take off even if the air is too dusty to see the ground. The dusty air tastes metallic on your tongue. It is laced with radioactive elements, and you try your best not to breathe in too much of the dust while making your way from your ship to the low stone buildings of the port.
This lonely, icy moon is the only non-gaseous celestial body within this rather quiet star system. Although there are no signs of life here due to the extremely low temperatures, certain parts of the surface glimmer oddly compared to others, as if to imply something may once have been here before.
Dancer is a resource-rich world, but with unusually violent weather and strong atmospheric convection, which leads to lightning storms stronger than on any other settled human world. Straying outside on foot is unthinkable, and it is not uncommon to find a small crater blasted out by a particularly energetic strike.
	A fair number of scientists have settled here to study the planet's weather systems, as well as others who do not mind, or who even enjoy, the wild weather. It might be possible for terraforming to moderate Dancer's atmospheric activity enough to make it a less dangerous place to live, but the cost would be prohibitive.
The spaceport town is a rather normal collection of wood and stone buildings, with large sheds for trade goods and a handful of pubs and restaurants. The only unusual thing is the fact that every single building has lightning rods mounted on its roof. The sky is perpetually cloudy here, with only occasional beams of sunlight glancing through. The clouds are moving awfully fast.
Darkcloak is a world that is almost always obscured by a thick layer of clouds, making it difficult to produce food here.
	Although the Hai tend to be an easygoing and nonviolent species, there are always a few in each generation that yearn for excitement, warfare, and conquest. These "Unfettered" Hai have built a major military base here, and they launch raids from here on convoys traveling through the nearby systems.
The occupants of this spaceport are not visibly different from the Hai you have encountered elsewhere, but they seem much more tense, angry, and hostile. As the only human here, you are being watched very closely, but no one threatens you directly.
	It is likely that most of the goods available for trade here were stolen from one of the nearby Hai systems.
Darkmetal is a cold, dry mining world, the source of much of the heavy metals that are used in Hai space. A haze of slightly radioactive dust hangs in the sky whenever it has been more than a week since the last rainstorm. Most of the mining is carried out by slow-moving vehicles the size of a small city, which ingest layers of dirt and bedrock, crush it to extract any valuable elements, then mix the remaining material with water to form a concrete-like slurry that can be extruded in solid blocks, to reduce the amount of additional dust that is added to the atmosphere.
The spaceport is hermetically sealed, with gantry tubes that can adapt to fit the hatches of human ships as well as Hai. The seal is to keep radioactive dust out of the living spaces, but its purpose is primarily to reduce the long-term exposure of the station's permanent inhabitants; for visitors, the risks are minimal.
Darkstone is a rainy, mountainous planet. The major continents are spidered with rivers and green valleys. A few enterprising settlers have built farming communities here, but the population remains low because of the threat of piracy from neighboring systems.
	Among the farmers who choose to stay, the attitude seems to be that piracy can't last forever, but good land will always be good land. Despite some low-level cynicism and bitterness, there is surprisingly little outright anger at either the pirates themselves or any government that might have been expected to control them.
Once every few months, one pirate band or another will land here demanding tribute in the form of food. The locals respond by just keeping a big enough supply on hand to satisfy them; any sort of planetary defenses would cost far more than the price of the amount of food that an average fleet of warships can carry. But once they recognize that you are here to trade and not to steal, they greet you quite enthusiastically.
This planet seems to have all the conditions necessary for a vibrant, Earth-like ecology. The gravity and temperature are moderate, and there is a fair amount of surface water, although the oceans are quite small. However, aside from a few stunted plants and lichen, there is almost no native life here. Given how skilled the Hai appear to be at terraforming other worlds, it is strange that this one has been left barren.
Deadman's Cove is an ocean planet; the continents take up only a tenth of its surface area. Legends tell of massive sea creatures hiding in the deeps: serpents hundreds of meters long; colossal sea turtles; strange tentacled monsters and exotic fish.
	One island archipelago is home to the spaceport, the only part of the planet where it is safe to land uninvited. The other islands - even some that seem from a distance to be uninhabited - are often used as staging bases for pirate fleets, who guard their secrets closely.
Your ship is on a landing pad only a few meters above the pounding surf, and you can't help worrying about what might happen if the tide rises any higher. If nothing else, the salt water is bound to corrode your hull if you stay here too long. You make your way to a bar where a cage hanging from the ceiling holds an actual parrot. After trying for a while to get it to talk to you, you realize that it is dead, stuffed and nailed to its perch.
Deep is a sparsely populated world of small island archipelagos surrounded by vast expanses of empty ocean. There is not enough land for any large cities or serious industry to emerge, so most of the inhabitants live in small fishing villages. The climate is temperate and Earth-like, but the sunlight is somewhat dimmer than you are used to.
	The fishing settlements are actually the second colonization attempt on this planet. In the early days of hyperdrive the Kingsburg Corporation sent out what was then one of the largest and most technologically advanced colonization fleets, penetrating deep into the then-unexplored southern galactic rim. After two centuries of sporadic and guarded contact, the colony fell silent, and when human expansion finally reached this area again, no trace of the original colony was found.
The spaceport is built on a large island, a now-extinct volcano with an elevation of several kilometers at its center. Most of the large-scale fishing here is done by a single company, Poseidon Industries, which also built and maintains the spaceport. Steep winding roads and sturdy concrete homes and warehouses line the mountain slopes, and below you in the harbor several massive trawling vessels are moored. On the outskirts of the spaceport are the ramshackle houses and open-air marketplace used by the smaller, independent fishing families.
Thick layers of kelp and plankton sediment have gathered on the floors of Deep Treasure's oceans over the eons, leaving behind rich deposits of oil that the Saryds harvest to make plastics and other hydrocarbon products. In the shallower seas, shoals of fish swim among some of the most varied and extensive coral reefs found anywhere in Coalition space.
The spaceport is built in a ring along the lower slopes of an extinct volcano that rises from the ocean near Deep Treasure's equator. Landing pads and hangars have been cut into the rock, and below them are a system of docks and oil refineries. The residences are on the volcano's upper slopes, where they have a clear view of the glittering water stretching out in every direction.
The upper layers of Deep Water's mantle are unusually hot, resulting in continuous volcanic eruptions that shroud its skies in ash and particulate matter. Aside from one small continent most of the surface is ocean, but the volcanoes have formed hundreds of separate island chains and archipelagos, each of which is home to unique plant and animal species.
	To preserve the planet's rich biodiversity, the Saryds do not allow permanent settlements to be built on the islands, but village-sized research stations have been built that can be anchored near an island while scientists work there.
The entire spaceport on Deep Water is an artificial island, a mesh of floating platforms the size of city blocks connected to each other by flexible bridges, leaving a system of canals in between them. The platforms are large enough that even the weight of a bulk freighter landing only causes them to ride a meter or two lower in the water.
	The spaceport is moored in place to keep it from drifting on the ocean currents and colliding with the natural islands that dot the planet's surface.
Deli Kasi is a world of vast oceans and mountainous continents. At many locations across the planet, the tall mountain ranges trap moist air from the oceans, causing large amounts of rainfall in concentrated areas. This, combined with snow melt from the mountains, creates large fertile plains across much of the habitable land area, which has led to Deli Kasi becoming a major farming world.
In addition to the usual services you would expect, the spaceport of Deli Kasi is also home to a number of genetic engineering labs geared toward the creation of more bountiful plant seeds. It's unsurprising that the Bunrodeans would genetically modify their food, but for as much as the Bunrodeans are capable of, nothing beats the usefulness of fertile farmland like what can be found on this planet.
Deli Kat orbits the dimmest star out of any of the inhabited systems in this region of space, a star not too dissimilar to Sol. Although the planet orbits farther from its host star than Earth does, its slightly thicker atmosphere seems to balance that out, resulting in a mostly Earth-like climate. The planet's many vast plains and river systems additionally help to make Deli Kat a fertile farming world.
The spaceport of Deli Kat is in a remote location where the coming and going of spaceships is unlikely to disturb any livestock. Goods are brought into the spaceport via high speed train-like vehicles, except without the need to travel on rails thanks to the use of technology that looks similar to the repulsor engines on human ships. Deli Kat's flat terrain makes it easy for these amphibious vehicles to bullet across the surface, picking up supplies from farms and bringing them to the spaceport for transportation off-world.
Delve is a world of towering mountains and valleys so steep that some slopes never see the light of the sun, where snow and ice remain on the topmost peaks year-round.
	The Syndicate's mining operations here are among the most extensive in the region, with some shafts descending several kilometers below the surface. Some of the mines are as large as a city, and in fact many of the mining cities are under ground, built in sections of old mines that have long since run out of useful metals.
	With all the mines and underground cities reliant on mechanical ventilation from the surface, the miners live in constant fear of two things: cave-ins, and power failures.
The spaceport is an enormous hollow carved out of the side of a mountain, with a network of steel beams and mesh holding the rock in place. Inside the hollow, the hangars are caves carved into the rock itself, with more steel beams overhead to protect the ships.
	A tiered set of cog railways transport passengers and cargo between the hangars and the large town at the base of the hollow. Beyond the hollow, the mountainside falls off into a steep cliff and a mist-filled valley below.
	Although the port is well-built and modern, you cannot help an irrational fear that the whole place will slide off the edge of the mountain one day.
This is a mining world, hotter than even the Arachi would prefer but still much more habitable than its sister world of Blobtab's Furnace. It is home to House Ablomab, the guild of mining and metalworking, and the dry climate makes it possible to store stockpiles of iron, steel, and other metals here without worrying about rust. Supposedly the warehouses here contain enough raw materials to double the size of the Heliarch war fleet if needed; the Arachi like to be able to trust that they are prepared for any eventuality.
This is one of the few Coalition worlds where the Heliarch agents openly carry weapons, due to the fear that the Resistance might see the storehouses here of base and precious metals as a tempting target. Although there are plenty of civilians of all three species milling about, the spaceport has something of the atmosphere of a military base.
Plumes of soot and ash rise from a cluster of several dozen volcanoes on this planet's main continent, shrouding the planet in a thick layer of clouds and choking out the sunlight. The ruins of several Korath cities and the geometric grids of cleared land surrounding them show that this was once a farming world, but now few plants are able to survive and kilometer-high glaciers have begun creeping down from the poles. It may be centuries before the skies clear and this world begins to thaw.
There are a few sturdy mesas on which to land, but most of this planet is rough rock and dirt. Despite the lack of sunlight, the surface is warm. There must be internal processes in the planet generating heat. The scanners on your computer show a network of caves reaching deep below ground. There's high radiation in the caves, too much to support human life. Crystalline formations that coat the cave walls block detailed scans. Advanced geological scanners might enlighten you further.
There are automated deuterium refineries on this planet, siphoning deuterium from cave walls. The refinery equipment looks Hai in origin. Some mesas have fuel pumps, filling containers with fuel for later transport to the planet's moon.
The Kor Sestor prefer to develop planets rather than planting stations in space, but this is a necessary exception: a deuterium refinery that harvests hydrogen both from the gas giant it orbits, and from the strong solar wind from this system's primary star.
As the station's orbit carries it in and out of the gas giant's shadow, the station cools by a considerable amount, and the metal of the hull creaks and groans in protest. When the station is not in shadow, the temperatures here are almost too hot for human survival.
On this factory world, robotic workers operate the factories, repair themselves, and keep the solar power stations free of sand with very little direction or assistance from their Saryd creators. Each factory complex has its own landing pads for the freighters that drop off raw materials and receive the processed goods.
Disara is a highly developed world, with multiple large cities on each of the planet's continents. Each of the cities spread out into more suburban-like regions, which extend further into rural and wilderness zones. Unlikely many other worlds, Disara has no one primary industry that it dominates in. Instead, the planet does a bit of everything, having a rather strong internal economy.
Part of the outskirts of the planet's main spaceport has been converted into a military installation, which a large base garrisoned with a considerable number of royal guards and their many ships. Apart from that, the spaceport feels rather normal, at least by Bunrodean standards. You spot the occasional Bunrodean with an excessive number of cybernetic or genetic modifications, but most appear to have few, if any, alterations done to them.
Dlia Jzaur has a few hotter seasons than normal due to the binary stars at the system's center, where beautiful eclipses can be seen weekly. The much smaller secondary star is believed to be a rogue captured by the larger one, but is slowly drifting away. There seems to be evidence of recent colonization efforts by the Gegno, but they appear to have been abandoned due to increasing warfare in nearby systems.
	Oddly enough, Dlia Jzaur has many unnatural looking formations on the surface that seem to reach up to the sky in areas eclipses often occur. The formations are hollow underneath, but show no signs of Gegno involvement.
The haze that perpetually blankets this world is actually an organic soup rich in nutrients and airborne bacteria, and the rain that falls here forms a sort of natural fertilizer. The entire planet's surface, including every quiet nook or alleyway in the cities, is covered in moss, grass, shrubs, or other green and growing things.
	Billions of Kimek live here, working either in the farms or in the mines and factories that operate in the hill country where harvesting crops would be more difficult.
This is a bustling commercial spaceport, with trucks carrying cargo crates to and from the landing pads and merchants haggling over prices. Everyone is moving around with purpose; not many people come to this particular planet for sightseeing.
	The air here smells sour and salty, and seems to leave a thin, slimy residue on your tongue. Presumably if you lived here you would get used to it after a while, but it is a bit unnerving.
Much of the surface of this world is covered in water. Ships the size of small cities float in the oceans, carried by the tides. The ships are designed to incubate algae and other microorganisms that once provided the Korath both with food and with a source of mixed hydrocarbons similar to petroleum. With the Korath gone and the food no longer needed, many of the ships have fallen into disrepair, or have drifted into the polar regions and been crushed against icebergs.
This is one of the few city-ships still in operation, probably because it was designed to produce oils and petroleum rather than raw food stuff. But even this ship is in poor repair, drifting low enough in the water that when storms arise, the waves break over the outer walls of the city and flood the streets where the Korath inhabitants once lived.
In order to pursue biological and other important scientific research, this green, lush world was designated as the Gegno Scin's capital. Much unlike the heavy industry of the core Gegno worlds, Dueitch Ae's surface still supports many natural ecosystems, and most importantly, is home to a notable amount of water bodies. The Scin effectively limit their expansion on the planet, even at the cost of their population's growth, in order to preserve the flourshing life on it as long as possible.
	Although preservation is a primary goal, the Scin still manipulate the planet for the sake of research. Even if it's not harming the environment directly, patches of the planet have been converted into large experimentation grounds, some a bit less humane than others.
The spaceport you are staying at is one huge circular construction outfitted with strange looking devices and technology, very much in contrast to the surrounding natural environment. In an open section located at the center is a small forest being observed by the nearby Scin. Some of them, however, seem to be more interested in observing you.
The historic homeworld of all Gegno, Dueyu Eitch is a rugged, rocky world covered with enormous metropolises and structures. Each city is based on an elevated structure, and starting from the bottom up the buildings are more advanced the farther they reach into the sky. Larger cities are lit by the varying reds and oranges of industrial forgery, and more urban areas are speckled with yellow and green. Beneath the heavily populated surface are traces of enormous cavities, suggesting the Gegno began a majority of their ancestry in the ground.
	Three distinct subspecies can be seen walking about: one that is very bulky and scaly in appearance, another slimmer and more bone-like, and the third a combination of the first two; all stand at heights varying between a human being and a Quarg.
You get many strange looks while you are in what is presumably one of the busiest spaceports on the planet, and it's hard to interpret the moods of beings you are not familiar with, especially varying among different subspecies. Strange foods and drinks are passed around occasionally, and radically different behaviors at every corner of the eye can make all of this seem very overwhelming. In the end, the watchful eye of warriors from each group of Gegno reminds you that this is not your place to find either curiosity or complacency.
Dune is a mostly desert world, which was uninhabited until very recently when geologists discovered that the bedrock under the desert is home to many rare mineral deposits and gemstones.
	Most of the inhabitants live deep underground to avoid the hot sunlight and frequent sandstorms. It is a dangerous life; cave-ins are common in the mines, and the sand on the surface can shift so suddenly that it is not uncommon for one of the underground villages to find its surface entrance buried, and to need to call for help from another village. But the mines operate with a joint ownership model where all the workers profit equally, so working here pays well. Many of the miners stay here only for five or ten years, while sending money back to their families off-world.
The spaceport is an enormous concrete tower rising a hundred meters above the sand, with the intention that it should be high enough to avoid being buried in even the largest of sandstorms. Each pad has landing clamps to secure your ship in case of high winds. Even so, you are a bit nervous as you leave your ship behind and board one of the cargo elevators to the complex below.
	There are no windows inside the port, but the tall ceilings and bright strips of sun-lamps keep it from feeling too claustrophobic.
Dusk Companion's moon is so large and orbits so close to the planet that the tidal forces even affect the planet's plate tectonics. The skies here are frequently blanketed in a volcanic haze. This world is rich in oil deposits, a relic of a past when more life flourished here, but drilling for oil is costly because the shifting ground can damage drills or seal up previously productive bore-holes. Since this also makes processing difficult, the oil is exported off-world for processing into plastics, instead of having the manufacturing performed locally.
The spaceport is in a particularly dingy corner of Dusk Companion's largest city. The windows are caked with soot and grime, and the few plants that grow here have a thin layer of volcanic ash on their leaves. The thick clouds overhead cloak the city in a perpetual twilight, and the streetlights remain lit even at midday.
The surface of this planet, when it is not obscured by dust storms, receives enough sunlight to power not only large solar farms, but solar furnaces as well, which the Hai use for manufacturing a large variety of goods. Some of the solar farms are so large that from orbit, the light reflecting off them could almost be mistaken for lakes and small oceans. However, there is almost no water on the planet's surface except near the poles.
Like most Hai architecture, the spaceport is made of bare, unpainted metal, so weathered that you would not be surprised to learn that it is tens of thousands of years old. Tall, curved walls around the outskirts of the port create a sort of labyrinth with the port building itself at the center; they are probably intended to block sandstorms while allowing gentler breezes to pass through.
With a wide band of tropical rainforests around its equator, this planet's climate is ideal for the Arachi. Several billion of them live here, and many of the workers assisting with the expansion of the Heliarch ringworlds come from this planet.
The air in the spaceport facility is uncomfortably damp, and you imagine that you can see a thin sheen of moss or algae on nearly every surface here that receives any sunlight. Except for the largest cargo bays, all the rooms smell faintly of mildew.
	One entire wing of the spaceport is dedicated to the Heliarch recruitment office for construction workers, and the waiting room is packed; many Coalition citizens are excited at the chance to help build something that will last thousands of years.
The ancestral home world of humanity, Earth has a population twice that of any other inhabited planet. Sprawling cities cover large portions of its surface, many of them overcrowded and dangerous. Some people work to scrape together enough money to leave, while at the same time others, born on distant worlds, make a pilgrimage of sorts to see this planet that once cradled the entirety of the human species.
	Earth is also the capital of the Republic. Representative government becomes complicated when one planet has a greater population than a hundred planets elsewhere. As a result, settlements of less than a million are grouped together into planetary districts that elect a single representative between them - a source of much frustration in the frontier worlds.
Earth's spaceport is a series of massive buildings; the gaps between them form narrow concrete canyons a hundred stories deep. From a distance it has the appearance of a bustling termite mound.
	Inside the towers is a warren of dim hallways and dingy shops. Hitchhikers sleep in the corners of unused docking bays under old army blankets, a few uniformed cleaners try to keep the litter and dust in check, and rich tourists from other stars cling tightly to their expensive cameras.
Although its climate is very cold and most of the surface is covered in snow, Eavine has a crust rich with rare metals and minerals hard to find elsewhere. Entire valleys on the surface have been completely stripped of their resources, likely used in the massive complex of half buried buildings which appears to be the only settlement on this moon that remains today.
This is a small Quarg outpost, which you suspect was built mostly to keep an eye on Tarazed Corporation and their alien-influenced research on the planet below. Like most Quarg worlds, the gravity is much too low here for it to be a feasible human colony, and although there is an atmosphere, it is too thin for a human being to breathe. Supposedly the Quarg have lungs designed for a continuous one way airflow, like a bird's lungs, rather than the ordinary in and out flow of human lungs; this is what enables them to survive on low-gravity, low-atmosphere worlds.
This outpost was really not designed with human beings in mind. The indoor air is not pressurized, so even there you need an oxygen mask to be able to breathe comfortably. And all the rooms and hallways are taller and narrower than you are used to. The station feels like a maze, full of winding passageways with no clear order or pattern to them, although perhaps the order would be readily apparent if you had an alien mind.
Ef Aourtdye is primarily a factory world where a large portion of mined materials are refined, processed, and re-distributed across parts of Gegno space. Large factory and refinery structures can be seen engraved into the mountainous surfaces of the planet, with some cities found in less crowded valleys. Once home to a much larger population, a major portion of the cities are now desolate as efforts have been pushed to either more distant planets, or pulled back to the ever-growing homeworld of the Gegno.
	A majority of the mining, cargo, and refinery vessel shipyards in Gegno space are also found here, newly constructed out of the freshly processed materials and quickly prepared to be put into service.
The Gegno here are much too busy to pay any attention to you as it seems this spaceport is part of a larger refinery site. The largest Gegno heave around large metallic containers of either processed materials or various structural parts, while the Gegno closer to your own height are working with machinery. At the far end of the spaceport you can see large rugged vehicles leaving or entering the site on paths that branch out to several more factories in the distance.
Ef Osch is the first world found by the Gegno to have a substantial part of the surface covered in water. Pristine beaches surround tropical land masses, and many strange creatures occupy the depths. Despite being appropriated by the Gegno Scin, there is a relatively low amount of construction work done on the mainland. Most industrial work takes place on large, vessel-like complexes that travel the oceans.
Each island vessel serves as a makeshift yet functioning spaceport with all of the basic facilities. From as far as you can see, there are two lines of vessels in your area, and although they are miles apart, they form a runway-like pattern.
	The island ports are built in a variety of sizes. The Scin fly their ships down the pattern as if it's a highway, staying neatly in the center until they find a port that accommodates the ship they are piloting.
A visitor to this station will immediately notice that the gravity is lower than most planets by about a third. There is a generously appointed reception area with an orderly on duty who informs you that this is a respite home for the elderly, and unless you have family here, you will not be permitted to wander the station.
The spaceport is virtually non-existent, with just a single cafeteria, a fuel pump for the desperate, and a dedicated loading area for loading and unloading the facility's regular deliveries. Despite its small size, everything is in excellent condition.
You have no idea what has happened to this planet, and you are not sure you want to know. The atmosphere is unusually hot and wet for a planet this distance from its sun, and the ocean levels seem to have dropped significantly in the recent past, leaving barnacles and bleached coral exposed to the air all around the shorelines. The wind is frenzied and full of wild energy, and the fog moves like a living creature.
Beneath the surface of this small moon, there is a network of corridors and large rooms. The architecture looks mostly human, but with a hint of Hai. Most are blocked off by sturdy doors with keycard access and plentiful security cameras. Frequently, you see a symbol similar to the Syndicate logo. Everywhere you walk, a security camera turns to track your movement. You get the feeling that you're not welcome here.
Eminonu's notably green rocks show a remarkably high copper content and the historic presence of atmospheric water. Scattered vegetative debris suggests that this world was, until recently, some variety of garden planet, albeit likely a cold one. Today the vast majority of moisture is locked up in ice fields, and the ambient temperatures are far too cold for even hardy lichens to survive.
A cold, mountainous world on the very edge of the binary system's habitable area, Enbye maintains the massive shipyards of the Gegno Vi, using raw resources gathered from the nearby volcanic planet to churn out hull after hull for warships. Many large canyons decorate the surface and are used as weapon test sites, and in one of the largest canyons lies a shipyard several times larger and older-looking than the rest.
	On closer inspection, the method that created the canyons does not seem entirely natural, and there are slight glints of light shimmering down in the deepest regions. You haven't seen anything like this on other Gegno worlds.
Rows of alternating towers stretch far ahead and behind the one your spacecraft is stationed at, and a thick layer of fog surrounds them like a floor blocking your view. Every now and then, the fog breaks, revealing the large shipyards down below either side of you, followed by a new row of towers.
	Off in the distance of the breaking fog is one vast gray structure, almost taking up your field of view. The closer you look at the mass, the more buildings there seem to be. If you stare too long, though, the nearby guards gesture more aggressively towards you, suggesting you keep your attention to yourself. It is unlikely you could get anywhere near there without being labeled a threat.
Lengthy oval-like shipyards speckle the surface of this otherwise inhospitable desert planet, home to most of the Gegno Scin's ship production. A majority of material wealth comes from the neighboring gas giant's moons; however, the strong gravitational pull occasionally generates natural disasters that ravage the surface. Despite all of this, the Scin remain vigilant and efficient in their craftworks.
Enveloped in a large black dome, this spaceport is a lot quieter inside than the loud winds and storms often found outside. It has definitely seen a severe duststorm or two, but still holds tight together. The Gegno Scin here give you lengthy stares, and oddly enough you notice that they take turns to observe you. One will look up then look back down to themselves, which is soon followed by another's attention.
Erabuthro is the capital of the Bunrodean Hegemony, home to the throne of the Queen. Only those with the blessings of the Queen are allowed to set foot on the planet's surface, although receiving such blessing doesn't necessarily guarantee a warm welcome.
	Much of the planet's land area is covered in a hexagonal pattern of city and wilderness, with every hexagonal urban area bordering an area of wilderness, as if the planet consisted of one giant city with hundreds or maybe even thousands of parks scattered across it.
The central hub of the spaceport is an engineering marvel of impossible looking structures, such as buildings with large unsupported overhangs that look as though they should collapse under their own weight. The spaceport includes many of the typical services that you would expect, but also has a number of buildings that seem to act as embassies or consulates from other worlds.
	Being an outsider on royal grounds, you are at all times escorted by a group of armed guards and a translator, although they seem to give you free reign to go wherever you want without any trouble. Only when approaching the royal palace without an invitation do they stop you.
Eragarthro is a large ocean moon of a moderately sized gas giant in the system of Eragaru Le. Although orbiting a gas giant means that the moon is often cast in shadow for multiple days at a time, the planet that the moon orbits is also firmly in the nearby star's habitable zone, making it a not too unpleasant place to live.
	This moon is also home to the Bunrodea's most prestigious academies, including the Royal University of Dogen and Military Academy of Fuhtiiski.
Being the major hub of education in this region, the population of the spaceport on this planet is bustling with young Bunrodeans. You note how very few of the Bunrodeans here appear to have any visible cybernetics. It must be the case that Bunrodeans only receive their cybernetics after reaching a certain age. Or it could be a matter of whose parents are able to afford the cybernetics for them.
The Kor Mereti robots seem to prefer to build their factories and refineries in space rather than on planets, harvesting their raw materials from asteroids so that they do not have to deal with gravity, or atmosphere, or rain, or sandstorms. They have left this desert world unoccupied.
	The deserts here are home to an unusual number of plant species, which have adapted to survive the occasional catastrophic flash floods.
This Kor Mereti outpost is far enough from the front in their war with the Kor Sestor that it has fallen somewhat into disuse. The largest docking bays are still kept open for refueling and repairs, but the sections of the station that used to be living quarters have been sealed off.
Because this station is only in use now by autonomous vehicles, there is no atmosphere, and no need for airlocks or containment fields. The hangar bay doors have all been left wide open, so ships can come and go as they please.
This is a barely habitable frozen world. The Korath built nothing here except for a few small mining facilities, now abandoned. There is no sign that the occupants were forced to leave by violence. Rather, it seems that they simply packed up their things one day and moved out. The buildings they left behind are now half-covered by snowdrifts.
This small space station has plenty of blast marks on its outer hull, but they have all been patched and the interior still holds atmosphere. But although still intact, the station is entirely abandoned.
	For food, the Korath set up vats of photosynthetic yeast and bacteria in some rooms on the outer shell of the station. In their absence, the bacterial soup has worked its way through the ventilation system into the rest of the station and formed a thin layer of slime on almost every sun-facing wall.
Esquiline's wispy skies billow with raging winds and continuous storms. The Remnant have discovered that its upper atmosphere contains a useful source of certain chemicals. Although few spacecraft can penetrate its depths, specially-designed aero scoop drones can be seen regularly dipping into the atmosphere for shipments to Aventine.
Starting from an early age, most Vi devote their lives to their endless trials of survival, finding themselves either on the frontlines of conflict or in the backlines of industry. As they grow old, they retire and spend the rest of their lives on green planets such as this one, where they hunt animals for food and till acres of land.
The spaceport here is a very large circular shape with tall pillars reaching up into a dome roofing. The empty space between each pillar is occasionally interrupted by a freighter or two, and in the center is a main platform where most pilots are gathered. Surrounding the pilots are what appear to be older members of the Vi deep in conversation.
	Several Vi are chuckling deeply, likely telling stories of hunts they've had on the planet. Strangely, they pay you no attention; not even of distrust, and carry on about their day as if you aren't even present.
This hot desert world is the first world the Gegno left their imprint on outside of their home. Littered about with various recording instruments of times past, Esstch represents a historical stepping stone for the Gegno. However, due to the proximity of the system's star, it is too hot to be colonized.
This station consistently has a large number of Hai warships docked at it, and further investigation reveals that it serves as the principal supply of fuel for the Hai military, as well as the staging point for resupplying ships heading to defend Wah Ki from the Unfettered. A monument beyond the docking area entrance attests to its history performing a similar role during the Korath raids before that.
The spaceport is dominated by its function as a military station, though it still has a dual-level promenade like its civilian counterparts of Ochrescoop and Greymoon. Several areas are restricted, but there are also freely accessible pubs and eateries, as well as an impressive cinema and a warehousing section for trading goods. The flooring is textured to prevent slipping and appears to be fairly new, while the rest of the station has a polished but well-worn feel to it.
The tiny sun that the Factory of Eblumab orbits is too small to provide much power, so the manufacturing plants here are mostly powered by nuclear reactors running on radioisotopes that are mined and refined locally. It is a hot, dry, and mostly barren world, and most of the workers here are young and single, hoping to build up enough wealth to move somewhere more pleasant.
The spaceport village is under an artificial climate-controlled dome, and consists largely of pedestrian thoroughfares winding past fancy shops and restaurants. On torch-lit patios, young Arach couples sit gazing soulfully into each other's multiple eyes. This is where they come on their time off from the factories to dream of the day when they will hop aboard one of the ships parked here and start a more stable life elsewhere.
Saryd culture places high value on connection to the natural world and to settings suitable for silent reflection. This is one of their most populous worlds, but even in the cities more land is set aside for parks and wild spaces than for buildings.
	Farther out from the city, the Saryds live in communal buildings that each house up to a dozen families, surrounded by gardens and cultivated forests. Unlike on many human worlds, here the most remote real estate locations are often the most valuable.
This spaceport is, in some ways, quite similar to the ports on human agricultural worlds, with large warehouses and open-air markets and heavy trucks bringing in piles of produce from the farms to be shipped off-world. The fact that it is inhabited by utterly alien creatures, each with six or eight limbs, makes the sight somewhat surreal.
The weather on Far Home is a nearly perfect blend of what is most comfortable for each of the three member species of the Coalition. The mountains and boreal forests have been settled by the Saryds, the grasslands and savanna by the Kimek, and the rainforests by the Arachi, even though this is technically part of Saryd territory.
	This world is also home to the annual Coalition Games, where athletes from throughout Coalition space compete. The winners become eligible for immediate elevation to Heliarch rank.
The spaceport is a large city on the edge of a temperate forest. The city's layout, with green space and parks woven throughout it, is clearly a Saryd design, but the architecture borrows equally from all three cultures. As with the other ports where interspecies interactions are frequent, hundreds of Heliarch representatives wander around to mediate conversations and prevent misunderstandings.
	Once a year, when the Games begin, the spaceport city grows to nearly four times its usual population.
The weather on Far Monad is actually rather pleasant. If it were not a lonely planet orbiting a dying sun in a region of space that few species visit and none claim for their own, it could have become a fruitful farming world or perhaps even a metropolitan center.
When the Korath were banished to the Core, they were left with only one living world, a planet they call "Far'en Lai," meaning, "the last candle-flame." Afraid that this planet's biosphere will turn to dust in their hands like all the other worlds they once controlled, the Korath have left Far'en Lai entirely unsettled and unexploited. It is rumored that the terms of their exile dictate that if Far'en Lai withers and dies, the remaining Korath exiles will be exterminated, but that if they can learn to make the planet flourish, their place in the galaxy will be restored.
This station serves both as a deuterium refinery and as a factory. A large number of small spires protrude from the hull of the station, each carrying fuel pipes, so that ships can simply dock with one of the spires to refuel instead of having to navigate inside a hangar.
A swarm of robotic spacecraft flows around this station. The traffic pattern is chaotic, yet efficient, adapting from moment to moment depending on which ships are coming or going. The robots never crash into each other, even though they sometimes pass each other with less than a meter in between, while traveling at high speeds.
Farpoint, on the northernmost end of human space, is a rocky desert planet home to a Republic Navy base and not much else. Farming is possible only within greenhouses, and this system is too far from the galactic center to be desirable for trade or industry.
The spaceport is the Navy base; there are no other settlements. There are a few pubs filled mostly with off-duty officers, and a quartermaster's warehouse where you can trade goods. The most striking aspect of the base, however, is how empty it is. There are enough buildings here to make it feel like a small city, but only one small corner of the port is in use; the rest of the buildings are boarded up. And there are enough landing pads and hangars to house perhaps a fifth of the entire fleet, but they are nearly all empty at the moment.
	The massive scale of the fortifications, coupled with their state of near-total disuse, puts you in mind of the fabled Maginot Line on Earth - a relic of an anticipated battle that failed to materialize according to plan.
With enough money, you can buy a sunny day. Farseer is an ocean resort world, where much of the local tax revenue is spent on the terraforming equipment that moderates the weather. Real estate prices fluctuate wildly in times of political anxiety, because the idyllic climate exists only by government fiat.
	Industry here mostly takes the form of executive offices for interplanetary banks, law firms, and software companies. Strict zoning laws limit construction of skyscrapers or factories to the continents that are in the less pleasant polar regions.
The spaceport is in one of the industrial regions near the pole; presumably the sight and sound of starships landing and taking off is too distasteful and plebeian for this world's richer inhabitants.
	Most of the people here are terraforming technicians or mechanics; they hurry through the streets without giving you a second glance. Next to the tin-roofed marketplace, children are playing in a concrete-paved lot; across the street are a few run-down pubs and a restaurant.
In human space, this system would probably have been left unsettled, because its sun produces too much ultraviolet radiation for animals to survive for long on its surface. But the Hai have instead turned this warm ocean world into a massive incubator for photosynthetic algae and bacteria. Each species is genetically engineered to produce one or more medical or nutritional compounds that they can make use of. Barges travel slowly through the oceans harvesting these microorganisms out of the water and separating out the chemical compounds they provide.
The spaceport appears to have been built by expanding a natural set of caves in a cliff facing the ocean. At high tide the lower caves flood, allowing barges to dock and unload the compounds they have harvested. Tunnels lead deep into the rock to rooms that have been carved out as warehouse space and living quarters. The rock remains somewhat cool, even at midday, but the air is still oppressively humid.
Featherweight is a small world, with lighter than normal gravity. Centuries ago, because of its remoteness, this world was the site of some illegal genetic experiments, and rumors say that the current inhabitants are the result of those experiments. Because they are so well adapted to low gravity, few of them choose to leave, and very few outsiders choose to settle here, so this world's culture remains quite insular and detached from the rest of the galaxy.
Although this is a human planet, as you walk through this spaceport you feel as if you are on an alien world. The ceilings and doorways are all a bit higher than you are used to, and the locals tower over you. Aside from a few food carts in the marketplace, there are no shops or restaurants in the spaceport, and the nearest village is several kilometers away. It is as if the entire port was designed in order to limit interactions with outsiders to the bare minimum that is necessary.
Everything on this planet that is made of metal is overgrown with a thick layer of a reddish lichen or fungus. In the cities, the tallest buildings look like they have been melted or half digested by the fungus: tall towers lean at crazy angles, and smaller buildings are entirely buried and indistinct. The air smells like sauerkraut and roses.
Fenrir Station is a bustling refinery, and from the way the foremen looked at you when you stepped off your ship, they seem to be eager for new recruits. In addition to harvesting deuterium, this is one of the few refinery stations in human space which also collects helium-3, an isotope with some exotic uses in medical imaging and in energy research.
	The diversity of isotopes found here is partly due to the station being a relatively new construction and benefiting from modern technology. But the gas giant which the station harvests from also has a composition unlike any other known planet. One theory is that it is on the cusp of becoming a brown dwarf star, in which case the isotopes now being stirred into the upper atmosphere by convection will eventually be depleted by fusion.
This station is composed of two rings, one containing the refinery and the other, the living quarters and cafeteria for the workers, in addition to a docking bay for visiting freighters. The workers all seem to be very busy, and few of them pay any attention to you.
Fertriery is a fairly typical world with a particularly dense atmosphere that includes significant levels of chlorine and fluorine. The only unusual factor is the above-average temperatures, likely due to the decreased energy loss into the surrounding space.
The Unfettered are operating several large strip mines here to collect uranium and plutonium to fuel the generators in their warships. Older, abandoned mining pits are scattered throughout the planet's surface. As a result of the mining activity, the groundwater here has become badly contaminated.
The spaceport is in the middle of a large city with typical Hai architecture: raw metal and chamfered corners. However, much of the city appears to have been ruined long ago, probably in a battle. The ruins have not been rebuilt, but instead it appears that most of the ruined buildings have been torn down for scrap metal. Several of the spaceport hangars are in bad repair, as well.
This appears to have once been an inhabited world, and the remnants of a few cities still remain. But the planet's crust has been cracked like an eggshell, releasing rivers of lava and leaving behind unnaturally steep mountains and fault lines. The wind whistles and howls through the rifts and fissures as if the planet itself is screaming in pain. A thick haze of sulfur dioxide and ash hangs over everything.
The scenic fjords and rugged mountains make Flood a popular tourist destination. Nearly all the land in the planet's temperate zone is covered in mountains, making traditional agriculture difficult.
	The locals subsist mainly on sheep and goats, plus a few native species, and grow fruit and vegetables in small terrace gardens tended by hand rather than by tractor. Most of the population is employed in the tourism industry, running inns for the visitors to their quaint mountainside villages, or making handcrafts for sale as gifts.
You have never seen this many shops in a single spaceport. Hand-glazed pottery, wooden furniture, dolls, sweaters, scarves, paintings - the variety is overwhelming. Crowds of tourists bustle around from shop to shop, making it very difficult for you to get through.
	This mountainside spaceport is designed to look like a village, except that in place of terrace gardens are landing pads (placed haphazardly to look more natural), and the buildings are much larger than you imagine huts in the villages are. The concrete tiles covering the roofs have been molded and colored to look like wood shingles, and although some of the larger buildings must have steel structures underneath, they have been made to look as if they are held up only by wooden beams.
During the rainy season, the plants on Flowing Fields grow so rapidly that the grass can tower more than three meters tall. Although they look verdant and serene when viewed from a distance, the grasslands are also home to many dangerous predators, including hundreds of species of snakes and ferocious packs of carnivorous rodents that can bring down animals many times their size. During the dry season, the rodent packs build domed hutches out of woven grass and mud where they shelter from the sun and the dusty wind.
	Most of the Saryd dwellings are in the temperate forests, but they have converted almost a tenth of the grasslands into farms.
Nearly everything within a hundred kilometers of the spaceport is farmland, punctuated with occasional small villages where the farm workers live. The villages and the spaceport itself are each surrounded by walls that keep dangerous animals at bay, as well as shielding the inhabitants from the flash floods that come at the very start of the rainy season.
	The farms operate by embedding seeds in the dirt during the dry season, when the ground is hard baked clay and heavy machines can drive over it without sinking in. When the rains come, the clay turns to mud and the crops begin to sprout.
Follower is on the edge of the Paradise Planets region of space: not really one of them yet, but aspiring to be. It is prosperous, but from manufacturing rather than law or finance or venture capitalism. A significant fraction of the local taxes collected here are being spent on terraforming, raising global temperatures and reducing seasonal fluctuations. The goods produced here always have a ready market to purchase them, so Follower's job economy is considered very stable.
	As one of the few planets still actively engaged in terraforming, Follower has been the location of several experiments with new technology, trying to leapfrog the centuries-slow process that other worlds have gone through. Unfortunately most of these experiments have failed, sometimes spectacularly.
The spaceport is a single skyscraper, fifty floors tall and as wide as it is high, with the floors twisting around each other in a helical pattern so that on each level, the landing bays are approached from a slightly different angle. The whole structure is built of steel and gleaming glass. Inside, the soaring ceilings give you more of a sense of opulence than of comfort.
Forpelog is a Quarg mining world, barely habitable by their standards and, because of its low gravity, unsuitable for long-term human habitation. The Quarg city is a marvel of advanced technology, entirely enclosed within glass and steel, with gardens and terraces where alien trees and plants grow. Outside the city, the landscape is rugged and beautiful, but the atmosphere is too thin to breathe and contains almost no oxygen.
Your ship is docked on a metal pad immediately outside the dome of the city, which towers over you. Immediately after you landed, a smaller canopy unfolded around your ship, sealing it in and providing enough air for you to breathe as you make your way inside. The stark, lifeless badlands outside give way to bustling streets and lush blue foliage within. No other human beings are in sight.
Foundry is home to Syndicated Shipyards, where more than half of the commercial freighters in human space are manufactured. Although much of the planet is blanketed in smog from the factories, there are also regions of pristine forests and majestic mountains.
	The Syndicate has a generous vacation policy on Foundry that allows workers to take as much as a month of vacation time every year, and many choose to take that time to escape from the cities and explore the wilderness. The shipyards claim that this vacation time is partly responsible for the high reliability of the ships built here, because a well-rested and relaxed worker is less likely to make the sort of mistakes that can quickly become disastrous in outer space.
The spaceport is surrounded by kilometers of hangars and factories where new ships are being assembled.
	The port itself is a trio of towering buildings, with a skywalk on the top floors to provide a view of the surrounding area. Larger ships land on pads around the base of the towers, while smaller ships can fly into hangars built into the sides of the towers themselves.
	Everything is made of gleaming metal, and each tower is slightly tapered and adorned with painted fins that make it resemble an enormous starship.
In all of Coalition space, this is the one planet that comes closest to deserving being called a slum world. More than ten billion Kimek live here, mostly in densely packed and run-down apartment buildings on the outskirts of the cities. Unlike more prosperous Coalition worlds, the city centers here are reserved for factories rather than for parks or government buildings or civic centers.
The spaceport is crowded with travelers, about equally divided between those who are freshly arriving, drawn by the promise of plentiful work and a cheap cost of living, and those who are preparing to leave and attempt to build a better life somewhere else. Most Kimek choose to specialize as workers rather than raising families, so the vast majority of the travelers are alone or traveling only with a loosely knit group of friends.
Freedom is home to the oldest and largest anarchist colonies in human history. The original settlers arrived in the first century after the invention of the hyperdrive, coming with the goal of simply getting as far away from civilization as possible. The colony has reinvented itself countless times since then as different leaders have taken control, and in fact at present it is split into two separate towns, East Mesa and West Mesa.
	The environment is a mix of deserts and brackish oceans, with a fair amount of native wildlife and good potential for farming. Anywhere else in human space, this planet would have become densely settled, but out here it has remained mostly empty.
Apparently anarchists are not opposed to commerce as long as no one is regulating it. Half of the landing pads in the spaceport are available for ships; the other half have been taken over by farmers busy selling their produce, or merchants buying from incoming ships and piling crates into large trucks.
	A sign above the entrance to the spaceport bar reads, "Fine home-brewed whiskey! Get smashed without getting taxed!" Further down the street, a sign over what appears to be a real estate office reads, "Why not settle where The Man can't reach you?"
	Inexplicably, the only advertising on the seafood restaurant across the street is an enormous banner proclaiming, "We have brown rice."
There are several large Hai cities near the equator on Frostmark, but much of the planet's surface is cold and uninhabited except by herds of extremely large, six-legged herbivores, and other equally large and frightening animals that prey on them.
Every Hai city has an appearance of great age and permanence, but this one, even more so. In Hai cities, transport vehicles carry freight and passengers along underground passages or elevated railways, while the pathways at ground level are reserved for foot traffic. Here, millennia of foot traffic have rounded off the corners of every metal staircase, and polished the railings as smooth as glass. The Hai locals do not seem to have trouble keeping their footing, but you wish your shoes gave you more traction.
Furnace is a nearly uninhabited world, used mostly as a waypoint for shipping and as a staging point for the Syndicate fleets that seek to keep this region of space free from pirates. The atmosphere is barely thick enough to be breathable, and none of the plants that grow here are useful for eating. However, because it is only a large moon instead of a full-sized planet, moving cargo and fleets of ships to and from its surface is fairly easy and inexpensive.
	Conducting any business here is a nightmare of tedium. Syndicate doctrine claims that corporate structure and process produce a leaner and more effective military force without the perceived wastage of the Republic Navy. But in practice, they seem to have combined all the worst aspects of military and corporate bureaucracy.
The spaceport is mostly a military base. Uniformed crew members hurry back and forth without giving you a second glance. The food in the mess hall is standard military fare, hearty but bland and unappetizing, and there are few shops or other services catering to civilians.
Beautiful landscapes cover this planet, and unlike nearby systems, the climate is more than welcoming to a human being. Most remarkably, there are small selections of elegant curved structures and overpasses spread out in patches along the surface. While they are fantastical in appearance, they are unmistakably not part of the land itself, and must have been left long ago by some other species that also managed to leave the natural beauty of this planet intact - either that, or it's been so long since their disappearance that nature has retaken everything.
Not including the trio of Quarg ringworlds, this is the largest megastructure in Coalition space. Arrays of gigantic metal pyramids lay at every angle, each nearly a dozen times larger than the average space station. Spread out over the planet's upper atmosphere, these so-called "hubs" are connected by long, inextensible, and extremely sturdy wires, ensuring no part of the structure is destabilized.
	First devised by the Kimek before the Coalition's war against the Quarg, the structure was completed relatively recently two thousand years ago. Populating the gas giant's uppermost atmosphere lay several hardy species of artificially engineered bacteria, periodically being "scooped" by the lower body of each hub and then later mass-produced into a nutritious soup.
When not in "harvest season," the hubs are relatively quiet, and serve mostly as a tourist destination. Many come for the unique, close-up view of a sea of clouds, swarming with furious storms and dotted with more of the silver pyramids in the distance.
	Each hub shares the same overall design in general, but the decoration pieces, services, and local amenities for each one have grown in their own way over the centuries. The only common thing they have between all of them is the signature restaurant, which serves a variety of dishes, drinks, and even desserts all based on the processed, scooped up produce.
Geminus, although not the most hospitable of worlds, is a young enough planet that large stores of iron, titanium, and other metals are easily accessible near the surface. For that reason, it has become one of the Republic's primary shipyards. More than half of the warships in the Navy were constructed here.
	The constant volcanic activity leaves the planet perpetually shrouded in clouds of ash and fog, so that being outside means being in a twilight haze with low visibility. Probably in compensation for this, interior spaces tend to be brightly lit and painted in bold colors.
Like everything else on Geminus, the spaceport is not terribly pretty, but is functional and efficient. Each of the wide hallways is marked out like a road, with space in the center for electric carts carrying cargo, while pedestrians are relegated to the edges.
	The hub of the spaceport is a food court with a ring of shops in the center and seating on the outside, where you can look out of plate glass windows at the lava fields and caldera outside. By night, you can see the volcanic glow all around the horizon.
Gemstone is a hot and unpleasant world, mostly due to a smoggy atmosphere high in methane. Much of the surface is covered in rugged mountains, making ground transport very difficult. However, the powerful tectonic forces here have created rich deposits of diamonds, emeralds, and sapphires, which are mined for use in jewelry and certain electronic components.
	Mining a tectonically active world is an insane project. Earthquakes cause frequent cave-ins, but the potential for riches draws miners here despite high mortality rates. Most miners are dirt poor as a result of being paid on commission for their finds, but they are full of stories of some distant acquaintance who became mind-bogglingly wealthy after striking a previously untapped gemstone deposit.
The spaceport is perched on top of a peak in an older and more stable mountain range. The landing pads here are used both by starships and by the helicopters that bring cargo to and from the mines. Overhead, helicopters fly by carrying heavy loads dangling from cables. A few low concrete buildings serve as warehouses, and on the far end of the port, where an explosion would do the least damage if a sudden, severe earthquake struck, large steel tanks hold deuterium for refueling ships. Asphalt roads with flimsy guard rails connect the landing pads to the warehouses.
The rainforests on Gentle Rain are home to spiders so large that their webs are strung from one tree to another, and their typical prey is birds rather than insects. Another, equally large species of spider is able to leap four or five meters into the air in order to snatch a bird out of a passing flock. The rainforest trees grow so thick that except for occasional clearings, very little light actually filters through the leaves and reaches the ground, and during the rainy season the dirt is transformed into pools of stagnant mud.
The spaceport is shaped like a giant tree: raised landing platforms branching out from a central hub where several towers provide lodging for visitors. In every corner of the platforms where the foot traffic is not enough to keep them clear, moss and vines have begun to take over.
	Judging from the number of Arach visitors here in addition to the Saryd natives, this must be a popular tourist destination.
Terraforming can change many things, but it cannot fix low gravity. Geyser was settled in the very first wave of space colonization, before refueling depots were available anywhere but Earth itself, so the only systems that could maintain trade with Earth were those that were only a few jumps away. Today, most of the industry centers around oil drilling and manufacturing, and the remaining workers are those who are too poor to leave.
	In recent years, Geyser's economy has not been able to support repairs to the centuries-old terraforming equipment, and as a result the climate has become increasingly arid, and it is difficult to grow food crops here.
This spaceport was built seven or eight centuries ago, and its once-grand architecture has now fallen into decay. A ring of hangars with arched concrete ceilings surrounds a central complex of warehouse towers, whose upper stories once held food courts and luxury hotel rooms.
	By now many of the hangars have collapsed, and the ones that remain have rugged plastic netting bolted to the ceilings to protect ships from falling fragments of concrete. Only one of the food courts remains active, and although a few of the hotel rooms are still used, the marble fixtures and tile floors that were once so polished and clean are now chipped and cracked and worn down.
The quality of its structure suggests that this Quarg ringworld had to have been completed rather recently, but there are some notable differences that don't seem Quarg-like. Some of the hangers and docks on the ring are oddly larger than others, and the inner quarters are wider and taller than what is normal for a Quarg. The hangar you currently are parked in, however, seems to be void of these characteristics, and is similar to ones at the Quarg ringworld in human space.
	Despite seeing numerous non-Quarg ships before landing on the ring, you are only guided around parts of the ring where they are not present.
There are probably many hundreds of billions of Quarg on this ring, and yet it still manages to feel spacious and lightly populated. They shift past you at a normal walking pace for a Quarg, and don't give you much attention except from the occasional uninterested glance or two. There seems to be little conversation and effort to accommodate you as the only non-Quarg in sight. It seems areas containing the aliens from nearby are off-limits to you.
On this mining world, the Hai are using boring machines to drill tunnels straight into the hearts of the mountains. Each tunnel twists and turns to intersect the regions of rock with the highest concentrations of valuable ore. Most of the tunnels also join up with other tunnels that have been dug through the same mountains, so that there are multiple exits from any given point in the mines.
The spaceport is in the center of one of the large cities that are built high up in the mountains where the air is cooler. It consists mostly of open-air landing pads: enormous slabs of metal embedded into the mountainside at different levels, with winding roads connecting them to the main marketplace and warehouse district. Several old mine entrances, well reinforced with metal struts, have been converted into hangar bays or warehouse space.
Glaze is a varied world with everything from sunny beaches to frozen tundra, but it is perhaps best known for its sandstone canyons and deserts. This world's wildlife has never been studied in great detail.
	Local rumors tell about an alien species of "canyon people" who live in caves in some of the deepest canyons, leading to a constant stream of visiting xenobiologists. The scientific consensus, however, is that these sightings have only been of a reclusive ape-like species that lives in the canyons, and is not known to dig caves or show any other sign of civilization.
The spaceport is a tower of glass and steel perched on top of a mesa, overlooking the canyonlands: spires of red and pale yellow stone, with a sprinkling of trees at the lower elevations. A wide highway winds down the side of the mesa, through several tunnels, and then off to the horizon. The port itself is not terribly busy.
	You notice quite a few families with children sitting by the windows on the upper stories of the tower, watching starships landing and taking off. Many of them have brought folding chairs or blankets to sit on. That must be what passes for entertainment on this world.
The climate on Glittering Ice is so cold for most of the year that the creatures here have evolved thick layers of feathers, fur, or fat to keep themselves warm. As a result nearly all of them, from the smallest rodents to the largest predators, are practically spherical, appearing as shapeless blobs; for many of them it is hard for a casual observer to even figure out which side of them is their head.
	Colonies of one particularly clever species of large rodents that live near the equator are capable of using ice and snow to build interconnected, multi-layered warrens.
The spaceport here is almost deserted, and most of the Saryds who are walking around in the frigid air seem completely uninterested in talking to strangers. Saryd culture places a high value on experiences of solitude and isolation, and the cold and stark landscape of Glittering Ice provides them with the perfect setting for quiet retreats. Not surprisingly, the other species of the Coalition seldom find reason to visit here.
Elsewhere in the galaxy, people speak dismissively of the "boughten sunshine" that rich terraformed worlds can afford. On Glory, even many of the lakes and hills are artificial, crafted to garden-like perfection.
	Fittingly, the chief industry on Glory is plastic surgery, along with other medical efforts aimed at prolonging life, funded by rich, elderly folks who have settled here.
	Glory is also home to the Academy of Planetary Sciences, the organization at the forefront of terraforming research. The Academy takes on only a handful of apprentices each year, and guards its secrets very closely.
The starport is as perfectly sculpted as the rest of the planet, a hive-like structure with hexagonal openings of various sizes for docking bays. Gardens have been planted on the roofs and on terraces on all different levels, and a small artificial river flows from a fountain on the roof down among the terraces and out to the ground below.
	It is almost impossible to tell the age of the locals who are walking by: there is a frightening monotony of wrinkle-free, nearly identically proportioned faces. When they speak, only their lips move; their expressions remain mask-like, immobile.
A visitor to this station will immediately notice that the gravity is lower than most planets by about a third. There is a reception area just beyond the docking bay with an extremely long desk and a receptionist who informs you that this is a respite home for the elderly, and unless you have family here, you will not be permitted to wander the station. There are different service functions at various kiosks along the desk, as well as a small sales counter with handicrafts made by the residents.
The spaceport is virtually non-existent. A trio of vending machines occupy the entranceway from the dedicated loading area for the facility's regular deliveries. The entire place has a somewhat tacky vibe to it, and its ventilation system doesn't quite cover up the antiseptic hospital smell familiar to anyone who has visited terrestrial aged care facilities.
Unlike the homeworld of the Gegno, the capital of the Vi is covered in astounding natural beauty where the land is untouched. Vast tracts of forests spread across relatively low mountain ranges, and a variety of both small and large marsupials can be seen running to and fro. Despite all of this, there are many plowed fields that have been converted to industrial ranges and shipyards, and several large cities have begun to grow towards the sky.
The structure you're parked at seems to be just a section of a much larger rectangular building with many other sections and rods projecting out from it. From the height you are at, you can see the wilderness stretch for miles, occasionally interrupted with another tall-reaching spaceport or factory.
Although human beings who do not mind living in low gravity are welcome to settle here, Grakhord is part of Quarg territory, and has been terraformed to meet their environmental needs rather than those of human beings. The full extent of the Quarg mining operations here are not known, but rumors say that they have tunnels reaching down almost halfway to the moon's core, and Quarg ships can also sometimes be seen harvesting hydrogen gas from the upper atmosphere of the gas giant that Grakhord orbits.
Here, you feel like a young child lost among a crowd of tall, indifferent adults. The average adult Quarg is over three meters tall, and although they move slowly and gracefully, on their long legs they easily speed by you. Worse, the counters for the merchant exchange, bank, and job board are high enough that you can barely see over them. But, the Quarg have helpfully provided stepping stools stashed under the counters so that shorter humans can carry out business without having to constantly crane their necks upwards.
The islands and continents on this planet are almost entirely covered in marshes, rainforests, and (near the poles) dense coniferous forests, and the oceans appear green from above due to thick algae blooms and floating kelp mats. The overabundance of flora is caused by Greenbloom's major volcanoes, which constantly spew carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
The spaceport is a massive floating island built by the Hai - a network of hexagonal platforms, each roughly half a kilometer in diameter, linked by bridges that can bend to accommodate the platforms rising and falling in rough weather. You are not sure what sort of alloy the platforms are built from, but judging by the fact that some of them have coral colonies growing on their edges, they can probably last for centuries without requiring any maintenance.
Greenrock is the closest thing that the pirates in southern human space have to a center of government, but taking the form of large, powerful corporations rather than elected officials. When rival pirate bands seek to negotiate on neutral territory, this is where they meet. Nearly everything is for sale here: illegal weapons, ships customized for pirating, and even slaves.
You have heard enough about this port's reputation that you are not surprised to see the slave markets, heavily guarded in case any visitors happen to find themselves in possession of a conscience. Nor are you shocked by the shady establishments catering to all manner of prurient interests. This is, after all, a pirate port, and everything is for sale here.
	Everything, in fact, including the very bizarre. At the end of one dark alley you see a shop called "Mike's Mustelids," with weasels and ferrets in cages in the window. Beside them, a fully-grown wolverine glares at you from behind the bars of a large and sturdy cage.
Although not strictly humid by the standards of a planet, the air here has a rich, moist, and faintly verdant quality atypical of a space station. The station is run by the Hei Low Io species preservation foundation, and each of its four branches features a different internal climate showcasing life from distant worlds. An infographic proclaims it to be the largest collection in the galaxy of rare organisms sourced from private collections, rebuilt from genetic samples, or rescued before being exterminated after being deemed invasive on Hai worlds. It also mentions that certain exhibits have been improved in some cases with species recently acquired from human space through secret trade deals.
	The central spire is still largely residential, with some nursery and laboratory facilities.
The spaceport's wide, two-level promenade is dedicated to a variety of themed eateries and gift stores, as well as some local artist galleries, a handicrafts store selling traditionally made curios from a long-abandoned world, and what appears to be an expansive and very well-equipped hospital which also services the planet below. The docking access opens directly onto the mezzanine, where a pair of information desks detail every possible route to ensure that the sizable number of tourists that visit here daily need not look far for assistance.
Greenwater is one of the few worlds in Hai space that is home to a sizable human population. The temperature on most of the planet's surface is too warm for the Hai, but tolerable for human beings. Close to the equator are scattered human settlements for farming or fishing, which trade with the Hai cities closer to the poles for technology and equipment.
In this bustling spaceport, deeply tanned human merchants are busy haggling with the Hai natives over the price of loads of fish and produce. The atmosphere is quite friendly and relaxed - even here, well into the planet's temperate zone, it is warm enough that everyone, Hai and human alike, moves at a languid pace.
Situated an ideal distance from this system's twin suns, this station holds greenhouses where the Korath grow a highly nutritious bacterial sludge that serves the exiles as their main food source. A few of the greenhouses are also growing more traditional crops, but these are clearly a luxury that the Korath cannot afford to waste more of their resources on.
The bacterial soup that is being served in the food court has a texture like wet silt and an unpardonably bland flavor. Someone who could supply the Korath with a steady stream of the right sorts of spices could make a killing in trade here.
This station is owned and operated by the Far Loo Bah fuel collection corporation. Their logo is emblazoned on nearly every possible surface and sign, indicating their sponsorship of all manner of services and features on the station. Interestingly, this includes a "History of Spaceflight" museum which takes up an entire wing of the facility. Naturally, the museum focuses very heavily on the Far Loo Bah corporation's role in that history.
The spaceport consists of a wide, two-level promenade encircling the interior of the station, with the docking access opening directly onto the mezzanine. The upper level is mostly devoted to amenities, light commercial businesses, a medical center, and a bank. The lower level has all of the real businesses: multiple manufacturers, which are supplied by the heavier elements filtered out from the supply of fuel stock from the planet below, have store frontage here. A virtual outfitter provides sale options for locally-manufactured outfits that can be installed on your ship without you ever leaving the comfort of the promenade.
More commonly referred to as "Checkpoint of Ablodab," this enormous station was built shortly after the end of the Coalition's war against the Quarg, meant to serve as a regional dry dock and supply base that damaged combat ships could return to after some time at the front lines. The lack of any subsequent counterattack, though, shifted its role to being a simple refueling hub for passing merchant ships, its dozens of warship-sized hangars remaining mostly unused.
	Despite the apparent lack of combat activity the station was designed to support, the local Heliarchs run a tight schedule even for civilian visitors as they land, ensuring ships are refueled and tended to as quickly as possible.
Built to serve as a purely strategic military repair port, the station has very little in the form of amenities, with a few basic cantinas and large, mostly empty living quarters intended to house troops stationed here. There are no shops, and nearly every civilian you see is moving as if they are trying to finish their business on the station as quickly as possible.
	On certain days every month, Heliarch ships "damaged" during combat exercises dock to stress test the station's turnover capabilities, breathing new life into the station's population, and causing extreme overcrowding of the facilities...
Like most Gegno Scin planets, Gue Faur is a steep jungle planet full of all sorts of life. Surprisingly, a majority of the Scin's population resides on this planet rather than their capital. A great percentage of inhabitants consists of researchers and scientists, and all sorts of greenhouses and biodomes are visible everywhere.
The spaceport seems very busy with all sorts of Gegno Scin walking around in a hurried fashion. Some of them are wearing long, sleek jackets while others wear more feather-like plating. Once in a while, a Scin stops nearby to observe and record you, and then carries on as if nothing happened.
This is the home world of the Hai. Well over half the planet's surface is oceans. The land is mostly covered by sprawling cities, except for some mountain ranges too high or too snowy to build on. Despite its population of nearly eight billion, Hai-home is relatively free of pollution or overcrowding.
The spaceport in the capital city of Haimat is massive, with towers well over a kilometer high and hangars large enough to park an entire fleet of capital ships in. Although the port is bustling, with ships taking off and landing almost every minute, nearly three quarters of the landing pads and hangars are empty, and whole sections of the spaceport appear to be unused. Clearly, this port was designed to handle far more traffic than this.
House Chamgar claims that their advances in aerospace and weapon technology were instrumental in driving the Quarg out of Coalition space about six millennia ago. Given how much more advanced the Saryds and Kimek were at the time, their claims are likely an exaggeration. But, there is no doubt that in the present day the home of House Chamgar has developed into an industrial world as productive as any in Coalition space, partly because this world is rich enough in natural resources that there is little need to import raw materials from elsewhere.
The spaceport is a multi-tiered, gravity-defying structure reaching hundreds of meters above the ground, with steel and glass arches, cantilevered platforms, and luxury-class docking bays on its upper levels. On the ground level surrounding the facility are landing pads for heavy cargo ships, along with the associated warehouses and repair shops.
The first settlers who came to Harmony were an Amish community seeking a place where they could live a quiet life and do work with their own hands instead of relying on machines and computers. Their community grew to millions of people, who now live side by side with other, more modern settlers. There are still regions of the planet where motorized vehicles are prohibited, but in other places trucks and horse-drawn buggies share the same roads.
The spaceport is on the outskirts of one of the larger cities, with a few medium-sized skyscrapers and many tall smokestacks for factories and oil refineries. The starship hangars here are shaped like oversized barns, and close to the hangars, grain is stored in silos. The spaceport police are on horseback.
	Inside the building at the center of the port is a large cafeteria, with food of the simple "meat and potatoes" variety. You notice a few children and teenagers in rough, homemade clothing staring out the windows at the ships taking off and landing.
Haven was founded by highly successful "privateers" nearly two centuries ago. Since then, as rival bands of pirates have fought over it, it has changed hands fourteen times, but has never been successfully invaded by the Republic. Numerous small manufacturing shops sell outfits that cannot be bought legally, and there is even a small shipyard where customized ships are sold to those who have the right connections.
	Much of the planet is desert, but with enough moisture to grow enough crops to feed the entire population. Strip mining has turned other parts of the planet into barren wastelands, and has polluted many of the rivers.
The spaceport is old and dingy, with piles of litter in the gutters and graffiti on many of the alley walls. Many of the shops are closed, the windows boarded over or covered with yellowing paper.
	This is an independent world, and a relatively stable settlement, but the effects of its separation from the rest of the galaxy are evident. A few young people carrying large backpacks eye you with interest, perhaps trying to gauge their chances of getting you to give them a cheap lift off-planet.
Haze is a manufacturing world, covered in sprawling cities. It is a relatively prosperous planet, but so far the inhabitants have chosen to spend more of their terraforming budget on climate control than on pollution reduction.
	Very few regions of this planet remain untouched by human hands, but a few of the particularly mountainous or marshy areas have been set aside as nature preserves. More than half of the indigenous life forms have gone extinct since human settlement began here four centuries ago.
The spaceport is constructed purely for efficiency and functionality. It is a long building, stretching in a straight line across more than a kilometer. Through the center, on tracks elevated at various levels, run monorail trams for carrying passengers and cargo. Along the sides of the building are docking bays alternating with storage rooms. The wide corridors are packed both with people and with robotic freight carts.
	As the planet's economy grows and the spaceport becomes too cramped, the port authority simply clears more land and extends the building, the tramways, and the docks out farther along the same line.
Heartland is a pleasant world, with a geography mostly consisting of low hills, plains, and oceans. The farms here produce bountiful crops, and as a result it has drawn tens of millions of settlers. Many of them now work in factories or assembly lines, in which most of the farm equipment used here and in the surrounding systems is built.
	Tractors from Heartland are trusted to be well-built and sturdy, and easy to repair; some are still in use that were built over a century ago.
The spaceport is a cluster of low buildings. At the center of the port is a special, taller building with glass walls on all sides. It houses the tractor showroom. The farmers visiting the showroom look about as excited as you do when touring a large and well-appointed shipyard. There are tractors with rubber wheels, spiked wheels, and tracks; with plows, combines, balers, and chaser bins; tractors barely big enough to sit on and tractors the size of a small freighter. It's somewhat overwhelming.
An extreme amount of tectonic activity in its distant past has left Heartvalley with mountain ranges five to ten kilometers high in some places. Most of the Hai settlements here are in the valleys closer to sea level, where the air is dense enough for them to breathe comfortably. The tectonic activity has left many ancient sea-beds exposed, providing access to bountiful supplies of oil. To the Hai, oil is too precious a resource to be used for fuel; instead they process it into plastic and use the byproducts in other chemical processes.
The spaceport is built halfway up the slope of one of the most heavily settled valleys. Farther down the valley, the tallest buildings of the city seem tiny compared to the mountains that surround them. On the outskirts of the city sit strange engines the size of a spacecraft, with pipes snaking out from them in all directions and sinking deep into the ground.
Helheim is not a pleasant place. Much of the surface is volcanic, pockmarked with craters and steam vents leading deep into the planet's crust. The air is slightly caustic, but breathable.
	However, it is also a world rich in easily accessible deposits of nickel, aluminum, and magnesium. The mining industry here has been booming for centuries, and in all of the Deep it is the one world where work is never hard to find - if you are willing to face the health risks and the lack of green and growing things.
The spaceport is also the main city in Helheim, and it is built around a series of glass domes of all different sizes. Each dome is a greenhouse housing a different sort of plant life, and in some cases animals as well: hermetically sealed parks, protected from the caustic air outside, where the locals can come when their hunger to be among living things becomes unbearable. The docking bays each have an airlock to protect the atmosphere inside the city.
Hephaestus is home to Syndicated Systems, which manufactures parts used in shipyards throughout human space. Although not always the highest quality or most technologically advanced, ship outfits produced by the Syndicate are quite affordable and sufficient for any ordinary pilot's needs. The executives of many other companies have been known to make a pilgrimage of sorts to this planet, to witness firsthand how the Syndicate has made their production lines here so efficient and dependable.
	Nearly all the inhabitants of Hephaestus live in a single metropolitan area that has spread to cover almost an eighth of the total land mass. As with many Syndicate worlds, pollution is a growing problem that they are working hard to address.
In many of the spaceport hangars you pass, mechanics are busy installing new parts or making repairs to old ones. The flash of arc welders and the squeal of bolt drivers and rivet guns is everywhere.
	Above the ground-level hangars, shops, and warehouses is a tier of supply rooms with all different sorts of ship outfits on display, rows and rows of gleaming, identical parts. Robotic gantries swing overhead at frightening speeds, stocking and fetching parts. It serves as both a functional storage space and a massive advertisement for Syndicated equipment.
No one is permitted to settle on Hermes without a government permit. It is a sparsely populated world, mostly used for medical research and development - including some research that, if the rumors are true, are carried out here in isolation so that if something goes wrong, entire districts can be quarantined or even "sterilized" by orbital bombardment.
	The landscape is nondescript, mostly rolling plains and forests. The oceans are relatively small, and as a result it is a somewhat dry planet.
The spaceport is far removed from any of this world's cities. It consists of a single, ring-shaped building; the docking bays open onto the central atrium, which visiting ships fly through to reach them. Industrial strength ultraviolet lasers are mounted on turrets throughout the atrium, and fire automatically at entering and departing ships to sterilize them. Once you land, the docking bay is hermetically sealed. Based on the precautions they are taking, you find yourself wanting to spend as little time as possible breathing the air here.
In the distant past, Hestia was a nearly lifeless ice world. It is now a sub-tropical paradise, one of the great victories from the heyday of planetary engineering back when the galactic economy had more money to spare for terraforming.
	Today it is mostly a retirement community for those who can afford it, although most of the population consists of young service workers in rented housing who take care of the retirees.
	On Hestia, the poor live in cities; the rich live in country estates. Aside from the urban centers, most of this world is covered in rolling green hills and oceans.
Hestia has two separate spaceports. The port where rich residents and their visitors arrive and depart is private, owned by a local company. Here in the public spaceport, no attempt has been made at impressive architecture: everything is spare and utilitarian, with floors of bare concrete. There are a few trucks and forklifts carrying cargo, but the streets that connect the landing pads are mostly full of people on foot, walking toward the customs building.
Hippocrates is a sparsely settled world, home mostly to scientific research outposts.
	The environment here, orbiting so close to a red dwarf star, is very different from most other settled planets. The scientists estimate this star system to be over ten billion years old, enough that life here has had much more time to develop and evolve than on any planet orbiting a brighter, more short-lived star.
The spaceport is a single building, and half the landing pads are just packed dirt. This port was not designed for large volumes of cargo or of visitors.
	Within the building is a sun-lit atrium, with separate storefronts for the commodity exchange, the job center, and the bank. The only place you can see where you might be able to get something to eat is a bar, advertised by a sign showing an Erlenmeyer flask with a folding paper umbrella hung over the rim.
In the year 2994, Hope was a somewhat cold but otherwise hospitable planet, home to a burgeoning population of almost two million people. But that year, a supervolcano eruption ejected so much dust into the upper atmosphere that a new ice age set in and the planet became unlivable.
	As the temperatures steadily dropped, nearly half the Republic Navy was mobilized to evacuate settlers from Hope and transport them to nearby colonies. The evacuation effort took six months.
	The abandoned villages and towns are now buried deep beneath the snow, and occasional treasure hunters come here to explore them and find items of value that were left behind.
Hopper is a temperate world of oceans, mountains, and plains, but with unfortunately high levels of sulfuric acid in its atmosphere. Metal and stone that are exposed to the atmosphere corrode quickly, requiring frequent maintenance. As a result, Hopper has only a few small settlements on it, and most of the industry is focused on underground mining.
	The oceans are populated only by a few indigenous life forms that have adapted to their high acidity; Earth fish could not be introduced successfully here.
The spaceport consists mostly of a cluster of steel-framed warehouses with tin roofs, surrounded by concrete slabs for ships to land on. Scattered among the warehouses are a few smaller wooden buildings, housing a pub, a restaurant, and a small inn.
	Some of the warehouses are relatively new, with metal that still gleams; others are covered in rust, and a few stand in ruins, with large holes worn through their roofs and rusted girders poking through like dead trees.
Huginn and Muninn stations, together, are the gateway to the Deep, the region of space north of here. The Deep was the first large region of space to have a democratic government, predating the Republic by nearly two centuries.
	Huginn Station is a prison station where convicted pirates must work at harvesting and refining deuterium to atone for their crimes against humanity. There are no services available for you here and the security guards, surprised by your visit and wondering at your motives, watch you closely.
The gravity is too strong on this planet for the Quarg to inhabit it, so they have welcomed human settlers instead. Many people who want freedom from the dangers of human space and the endless instability of human government have settled here.
	Although the regions near the equator are far too warm to be comfortable, the climate closer to the poles is almost ideal; the only reason Humanika is not as densely populated as some of the worlds farther to the galactic north is the distrust with which most humans view the Quarg.
The spaceport is a towering steel structure, built by the Quarg, with docks for their pilot-less cargo drones as well as platforms for human ships. The hallways inside have disconcerting proportions, somewhat narrow but with very tall ceilings.
	In addition to the human inhabitants, there are a few tall, almost fragile-looking robots with digitigrade limbs and narrow torsos patterned after the anatomy of a Quarg. Most of the robots stand still in the corners, like statues, but a few are moving around and interacting with people, apparently as remote control proxies for Quarg in orbit. It is a clear reminder of who owns this planet.
This station is so run-down that most of the workers carry oxygen masks in case a meteoroid punctures the hull, and a few of them are even dressed in full space suits. The deuterium refinery here is barely operating, the number of workers is minimal, and nearly half of them seem to be busy just welding patches onto the hull to hold the station together. At the moment, there are no repair or refueling services available here.
Icefall is far from its sun, with an axial tilt of roughly 38 degrees. This means that the climate is cold, the year is also long, and each hemisphere has a short summer - barely enough to fit a terrestrial growing season. Nevertheless, most of the inhabitants are farmers, with the exception of the oil drilling industry at the equator. There are only a few major towns, and no major metropolitan centers. Icefall's oceans are filled with constantly shifting pack ice and icebergs, making them nearly unnavigable.
	The most distinctive feature of the local ecology is the vast flocks of gooselike migratory birds, which raise two broods a year: one in each hemisphere's summer. The farm workers migrate in similar fashion, and many landowners have farms in both hemispheres.
The spaceport is located near the equator, in this world's industrial zone. Along the horizon are fields of pumpjacks and oil derricks.
	The port consists of rows of hangars, plus two large square towers that house the marketplace and storage space for cargo. A constant howling wind sweeps in between the buildings, but thankfully they are well constructed out of sturdy concrete.
Icelake is the second most populous Hai planet. Since its oil and natural gas reserves have long since been depleted, the large cities and factories here rely heavily on geothermal and wind energy. One fortunate side effect of that is that the air here is almost as pristine as on a non-industrial world.
The largest hangars in the spaceport are built of metal beams more than a meter wide, with thick glass panels between them to let in the sunlight. Even the smaller and newer warehouses on the outskirts of the port seem as solid and permanent as the mountains themselves. Thousands of Hai are walking back and forth between the buildings, and many of them regard you with curiosity; there are very few human visitors here.
Iddesato is a considerably large station, at least when compared to a human one, but much of its size can be attributed to the large constructs sticking out of its front, the purpose of which you can only guess at. The rest of the station seems more normal, with a large hangar that acts as the station's spaceport.
The station's spaceport is extremely large compared to the size of the entire station itself, taking up almost half of the interior. A variety of ships enter and exit, but a good chunk of the parked ships seem to be kept here and fitted for combat.
	You're able to use some basic services in the spaceport, and there's even a small outfitter you can access, but you're prevented from entering the station beyond the spaceport.
Although too cold for a proper civilization, Iemn Eitch has been extensively used in the past as an outpost for the growing Gegno space race. As one of their first few explored worlds, antique-looking architecture is are scattered about the surface and looks significantly different to structures found on Dueyu Eitch, perhaps due to the nature of construction in an unfamiliar environment. A few large shipyard-esque platforms continue to service a small number of still active Gegno generation vessels from times past, presumably at a much slower pace than during the earliest days of their space colonization.
Illbo Avo is a barren moon with little to no atmosphere, but it is also the only solid ground in this system that isn't prone to sliding out under your feet as a result of volcanism. As such, because of the system's proximity to Paru Paru and to the Korath, the Bunrodea have turned the crust of this small moon into a dense network of subterranean structures with purposes ranging from large ship hangars to factories that pump out military-grade ships and outfits, essentially making it one big war factory.
The main spaceport of Illbo Avo is accessed by entering a large, artificial, circular cavern near the moon's equator. The walls of the cavern are lined with hangar bays; available bays have their hangar doors open. Once you find a vacant bay to land in, the door closes and the hangar becomes pressurized.
	The inside of the spaceport is buzzing with activity, from shipments of new weapons being moved around to military squads marching in unison.
Illbo Elo is a sparsely populated world, with much of the planet's surface being barely habitable deserts. The climate becomes more temperate as you approach the poles, where most of the population is located. The Bunrodea appear to be constructing entirely new cities within these temperate zones, as evident by the large fleets of freighters bringing supplies to cities of mostly skeletal buildings with exposed foundations and metal beams.
The main spaceport of Illbo Elo appears to be a major military installation, with most of the landing pad being occupied by Bunrodean warships. Moving away from the more military-focused center, you find that the edges of the spaceport are packed with civilians barely supported by the current infrastructure, which is perhaps why the Bunrodea are constructing new cities elsewhere.
Ingot is a volcanic moon, totally unsuitable for life but rich in metal. The miners who work here must spend all their time inside pressurized buildings.
	Because Ingot has almost no atmosphere to slow them down, meteorites are a constant danger to the colonists. The shells of the buildings have multiple layers, designed to be self-sealing in any but the largest of impacts. Most of the mining is done remotely by robotic vehicles, but someone still needs to be present to control them and to make repairs when something goes wrong.
In this spaceport, ships dock inside a hangar whose ceiling protects them from meteorite impacts. The hangar is not pressurized, so there are also landing tubes that connect to each of the visiting ships. Many of the people inside are carrying emergency oxygen masks in case a sudden impact ruptures the building.
	In addition to being the spaceport, this complex is also the repair and control center for the mining robots. There are a handful of buildings elsewhere on Ingot, but not many. You cannot imagine spending so much time with so little space or change of scenery.
Inmost Blue is an ocean world, one of the first planets that the Kimek settled outside their own solar system. About two billion Kimek live on the low-lying islands and the one major continent, and the shallow ocean regions have been entirely converted into kelp farms. The Kimek take a utilitarian approach to food, and processed seaweed is a nutritious but highly unappetizing staple of their diet.
The spaceport city is built on the mountain slopes overlooking a fjord, whose water is deep enough for even the largest of cargo barges to enter. Many of the barges have landing pads on their decks so that the cargo can be transferred directly to freighter starships without needing to be stored on land first. The chief export is a gray-green meal made from dried and ground up seaweed.
Formerly a fruitful farming world, this planet is now in the grips of an approaching ice age. The Kimek have chosen to wait it out rather than risking destabilizing the planet's ecosystems by trying to correct the temperature change, and the population has dwindled to less than a billion, mostly living near the equator where the climate is still somewhat temperate.
The spaceport city was once the largest on the planet, but now more than half of it is uninhabited, buried in snowdrifts. Within the next century, the Kimek will probably need to build a new spaceport closer to the equator, unless they choose to abandon this world altogether.
	The Kimek who live here are dressed in puffy winter coats that entirely cover their bodies and heads; only their spindly legs protrude out.
As you pass low over Janiculum, you see that its surface is little more than a gravitational graveyard for asteroids and debris. Impact craters litter the surface, with some looking fairly recent.
	Janiculum is the subject of regular surveillance by the Remnant, who track impacts and investigate them whenever they occur. While it is not clear what the Remnant are recovering from these investigations, they continue to do them with meticulous regularity.
Jentuthro orbits one of the dimmest stars in this region of space, making it an unusual place to find the Bunrodea. It is also where you will find their major genetic engineering research facilities. These facilities attract the brightest minds in genetic engineering from across all of Bunrodean space, where they work to further their understanding and control over genetics.
	Although the majority of genetic research is done here, much of its practice is done on the world of Melenci in the region north of Paru Paru.
A large number of the genetic research facilities on Jentuthro are located close to the major spaceport, with most of the remaining facitilies being located in more minor cities scattered across the planet. There are a few facilities located in more remote locations, access to which is highly restricted.
	The use of cybernetics on this world seems to be almost entirely nonexistent. There may be a bit of a rivalry between the cybernetics world of Thshybothro and this one, hence the lack of cybernetic usage.
The world of Kaeyin now seems to be completely uninhabited, but it hasn't always been like that. Large, empty cities with towers of indescribable design encompass a portion of one single continent. The rest of the land remains almost untouched by anything not native to this planet, as if the buildings were simply lowered down onto the land rather than built up over time.
The only word you can think of to describe the spaceport is "impressive." It is on the top of the largest tower, placed in the exact center of a gargantuan city. With a base almost as big as a sizable village, very quickly getting thinner as it raises into the city's skyline.
	Tiny, four-legged robots walk on the walls of every room, cleaning them in a matter of seconds. You can see more on the road below, and you presume they are everywhere in this city; this makes it impossible to estimate how long the planet has been abandoned, since everything here is perfect and clean.
For some reason, this apparently fruitful world has been left largely unsettled by the Bunrodea. Kalbai is teeming with life of all kinds, from varieties of plants across the various forests and plains of the planet's surface to the critters of varying sizes that scurry through the underbrush.
	There are only minimal signs that anyone has ever set foot on this world; there are a number of ancient ruins scattered across the largest continent. A few appear to have been abandoned and reclaimed by nature, but most look as though they were destroyed, creating strikingly lifeless circles in the landscape around the center of the ruins.
Karek Fornati was once a farming world, before global temperatures began to rise and the overworked farmland slowly deteriorated into deserts. The Korath who remain have dedicated their lives to finding a way to keep the "sand seas" from swallowing up the last of the fertile land, but without much success, and there are regions near the equator where sandstorms rage continually and no living things can survive.
The spaceport city is built around an enormous public square, with stalls around its periphery for produce or grain or cattle to be sold and shipped off-world. But only one corner of the square is still active as a market; the rest has fallen into disrepair.
	Outside the city, the land is divided up by perfectly straight strips of pine trees laid out perpendicular to the prevailing wind direction. Many of the fields are growing what looks like hay, or clover, or black, nearly leafless shrubs; only a few of the fields are actively being harvested.
This planet appears to have suffered irradiation when the neighboring star of Peresedersi went nova. The local flora and fauna are alive but still struggling to recover from the loss. Several large Korath cities remain. It seems that they were not able, or not willing, to evacuate the entire population in time to escape the nova's gamma radiation; sun-bleached bones are scattered in the streets of the largest cities.
The Kor Sestor apparently use this as a mining world, but rather than digging for minerals they have been intentionally crashing metal-rich asteroids into undeveloped sections of the desert where the robots can then break them apart and extract the ore. Predictably, the ecological effects of this sort of mining are devastating.
The Kor Sestor refineries are laid out in a grid pattern. Each square of the grid is a few kilometers on each side, and is laid out in exactly the same way: a central power station, surrounded by smelters and repair bays and factories and storehouses laid out like spokes of a wheel. Each square produces and maintains a fleet of worker robots that occasionally collaborate to construct a new square, extending the city farther outward. Lines of harvester robots snake out from the refineries to the downed asteroids like trails of ants.
In this factory station, raw metal harvested in the other Korath systems is shaped into ships and weapons, the war materiel for their raids on human space. Sections of the ships are assembled and tested in pressurized hangars, but the Palavret is a large enough ship that the final assembly must be done in space, outside the station.
This station is run with military discipline reminiscent of a human Navy base. All the Korath, even the construction workers, are in full uniform with some sort of rank insignia: epaulettes that vary both in shape and color. The largest ones appear to mark the officers in charge.
This is the Kimek home world. Before they developed spaceflight, billions of Kimek died either from famine or from civil wars brought on by overpopulation. Today, every major city still has "hunger towers": kilometer-high skyscrapers where yeast and bacterial cultures are grown in massive vats in order to provide a bland but stable source of emergency rations if the crops and the food shipments from off-world should ever fail.
Nearly all the land mass on Ki Patek Ka is covered in cities; the only undeveloped land is the high mountain peaks and the ice caps near the poles. The spaceport alone is larger than most human cities, stretching from horizon to horizon, with a ship taking off or landing every few seconds. The sheer number of people here - mostly Kimek, but a fair number of Saryds and Arachi as well - is overwhelming.
Kisarra's surface is one vast desert as far as the eye can see. The sandy nothingness is only occasionally broken up by oases and rocky outcrops. Many of the oases have small towns that have formed around them and some of the outcrops seem to used as entrances to mines. Strikingly, all of the towns and mines have large walls constructed around them.
Although most spaceports typically double as a massive population center for the planet, in many cases being the most populous region on the planet, Kisarra's spaceport acts only as a location to ferry minerals brought from the mines off-world, with most of the planet's population living in the small oasis towns.
	Just as with the small towns and mines, the spaceport has a large wall constructed around it. From what you can tell, this is to keep out the gigantic spider-like creatures that inhabit Kissara's deserts. These spiders burrow through the sand and consume any unfortunate creature they can find.
This small Korath station is positioned at the Lagrangian point in between this system's sun and the planet that the Quarg had been mining for material to build the ringworld. The station is dwarfed by the ringworld, but nonetheless manages to make a statement: re-asserting the territorial rights of the Korath in the face of an alien species that chose to build a settlement in one of their systems.
As the Korath civil war became more and more brutal, the safest home for those who wanted to avoid the fighting was right here in the shadow of the Quarg. This small station is still home to well over a thousand Korath, and they are constantly on the move from one section to another, their boots ringing loudly on the metal floors.
	The Korath studiously avoid staring at you or even making eye contact, but you get the sense that many of them are quite curious about who you are and what you are doing here.
The cities on this world have been hit by an astonishing variety of weapons. Some were leveled by massive explosions, while others show signs of strafing by low-flying ships or of orbital bombardment. Outside the cities, the land is fruitful and varied: forests, mountains, oceans, desert, and tundra.
This planet has a temperate climate, yet its surface is nearly lifeless, perhaps due in part to the high concentration of radioactive isotopes in the soil. The only plant growing on most of the land is a hardy bioengineered moss designed by the Wanderers to accumulate heavy metals and other toxins in its root system. These plants are then periodically harvested by flocks of unpiloted robots and buried in deep pits near the planet's poles.
This is the only Wanderer spaceport on the entire planet, with a population of no more than a few hundred Wanderers, most of them engineers and robot technicians. At the center of the port is a glass dome nearly a hundred meters tall, enclosing a garden with cliffs, streams, and towering trees, where the Wanderers can stretch their wings and relax in a green and growing environment without being exposed to the outside air.
	The hallway that loops around the outside of the garden is decorated with an incredibly detailed mural. At one end the mural depicts a barren and blasted landscape, which gradually transitions along the length of the hallway to a green and growing world. The mural must be a reminder to the workers of what they are striving to accomplish here.
This world is nearly unpopulated, with very little animal life and strange, twisted plants with odd coloration. In small patches of land, the native vegetation gives way to green forests and fields, which were probably planted there by the Wanderers. In some of the larger forests, birds and insects have begun to flourish.
This small spaceport is unmistakably a research station, and the Wanderers walking or flying from one building to another have a self-absorbed attitude not unlike what you would expect from human scientists. Around the outskirts of the port village are pens that hold a staggering variety of animals, mostly ruminants and other herbivores, and the work of the scientists seems to revolve around convincing these animals to eat the local flora.
Kraken Station is seven centuries old; it was the first space station built outside of the Sol system. The station has been modified and repaired so often since that time that in all likelihood not a single deck panel or bulkhead that was part of the original station remains.
	Four centuries ago it was nearly destroyed by an asteroid impact, but other than that it has been a working deuterium refinery for its entire lifetime.
The main ring of the station consists of three different levels, with living quarters, repair shops, a few small cafeterias, and even a barber. The lower levels also house some of the refinery equipment, but much of the harvesting is done automatically by robotic drones.
	For a station that is so old, everything feels surprisingly sturdy; the bolts and beams that make up the station are much thicker than they probably need to be.
While this moon's minerals aren't particularly rare or exotic, its closeness to Viminal has made it the subject of many mining projects over the centuries - efforts to find traces of the valuable Key Stones which permit travel through this region of space. None of them were successful, and most Remnant scientists believe that Kumkapi formed somewhere else and was captured by Vimnal's gravitational pull at some time during its formation.
	When the absence of Key Stones became clear, most scientific and mining interests faded away, and today the surface is scattered with abandoned outposts whose somber tunnels are thousand-kilometer labyrinths.
This Quarg ringworld is almost half completed, but there are no signs of active construction, and your ship's sensors picked up no energy signals from any section of the ring except for this one. You also observed superficial weapon scars on some parts of the ring, damage that the Quarg have not bothered to repair - although clearly the attackers did not possess weapons powerful enough to do any serious harm to the ring.
Despite their size, the Quarg are generally almost silent when they move, and there seem to be very few of them left inhabiting this ringworld. As you walk through some parts of the spaceport it is utterly silent and seemingly deserted, and you are jolted by surprise each time the illusion of solitude is broken by a Quarg emerging suddenly from a doorway and striding silently past you. Every once in a while, louder footsteps announce the presence of a group of Korath visiting the station.
	Although the spaceport offers all the usual amenities, including a small merchant's exchange for trading goods, you feel slightly self-conscious about breaking the silence of the station to speak to anyone.
The Quarg built this station centuries ago, before they began construction on the ringworld. From the dark side of the station, the ring is visible as a thin bright filament stretching out to either side of the system's sun. The ring itself is closed to human visitors, but tour shuttles depart from here on a regular basis, giving human tourists a closer view of this engineering feat that is so far beyond anything human beings have ever attempted to build.
In the docking section are flexible, oddly organic-looking tubes that snaked out to connect to your ship as it approached. Walking through the tube and into the station was a somewhat disconcerting experience. Inside, crowds of human tourists gawk at the tall, thin Quarg, who for the most part seem unfazed by the attention. The station is perfectly clean; every surface shines.
This is an old factory world, so shrouded in smog that only tiny glimpses of the land are visible from above. Deep under the oceans of Laki Nemparu are oil reservoirs so vast that centuries of industry have not yet drained them dry. All but the hardiest of the native vegetation and wildlife is now long extinct from lack of direct sunlight or from pollution and chemical exposure.
All the Korath you encounter in the spaceport are wearing ventilator masks, and if you were staying here for longer you would probably do the same. The air leaves a metallic taste in your mouth, and your eyes feel dry and sting when the wind hits them. On the outskirts of the city, factory smokestacks are belching more pollution into the air; the Korath have either given up on preserving this planet, or simply have too great a need for the goods manufactured here to be willing to shut the factories down.
Letis'sei is an ancient station with cramped interiors and massive inaccessible sections. Completely unpressurized and lacking an internal atmosphere, it is hard to imagine what this station originally looked like. Nonetheless, three impressive cannon-like structures are still recognizable, floating outside the rest of the station. The ring that used to keep them together is destroyed, but they continue rotating around the main body in the circular formation that they were made to follow.
Leviathan Station is the Deep's most productive deuterium harvesting station. Built nearly four hundred years ago, the station was one of the first to fuel the massive cargo caravans sent out from the Deep back when this was one of the only regions of the galaxy with a prosperous economy and a democratic government. Today it remains under government control, because the citizens of the Deep are wary of any private corporation controlling the industry that makes interstellar travel possible.
This is a refinery, not a tourist destination. You were allowed to dock here, and the massive cafeteria used by the local workers is available to you if you want to eat, but beyond that no one seems particularly interested in entertaining you or interacting with you.
	On the other hand, you get some small satisfaction from knowing that you refueled your ship with deuterium that just yesterday was most likely still floating around in the upper cloud banks of the gas giant below.
Lichen is a rainy world of marshes, fields, and streams. More than half the rice consumed in this administrative district is grown on Lichen, because of its near-optimal climate. However, because of the constant rain and overcast weather, few people aside from farmers have settled here.
	Planetary government, or indeed any government above the village level, is virtually nonexistent. Most farms are small and family-owned, negotiating sales directly with off-world corporations who then arrange for transportation of the produce.
The spaceport is built on a small mountain, one of the rare places where enough bedrock rises above the soil to provide a firm foundation for large buildings and high ground during floods.
	The warehouses and market are built of concrete, but the smaller buildings on the outskirts of the port are wood framed. Moss is growing everywhere, and in places the wood is stippled with mold. But the people are friendly enough, unhurried and peaceful.
	A noodle soup restaurant near the center of the port town seems to be the gathering place of choice. Whatever they're cooking inside, it smells delicious.
Lodestone is a young, volcanically active world. The atmosphere is often filled with choking dust or sulfur dioxide, and new eruptions can occur with hardly any warning. Building any sort of structure here is an exercise in futility.
	The only reason Lodestone is inhabited is because of the planet's unusually rich reserves of heavy metals and other rare minerals.
This port is known as "Fourth Port." The previous three ports are partly or completely buried under lava flows. The present port is built on a raised platform a hundred meters above the ground. The steel stilts supporting the platform are intended to keep the port from being buried by any encroaching lava flow. However, given that some explosive eruptions here have been known to launch lava nearly a kilometer into the air, sooner or later Fourth Port will need to be replaced by a fifth.
Longjump is a mostly industrial world, with lower than normal gravity that makes it relatively easy to operate and transport heavy equipment. Hang-gliding is also a popular sport here, although for safety reasons it is prohibited anywhere near the spaceport.
	Longjump was the first planet discovered in the region of space known today as the Rim. Every year in the month of August, the Rim celebrates Han Sizer month, a whole month of activities commemorating the first explorer of the region. Wealthier citizens of the Rim celebrate by visiting as many Rim worlds as they can in the month, paralleling Han Sizer's month-long exploration of the region.
The spaceport consists of four large towers connected by bridges, with openings for hangars in the sides. The upper stories are for landing ships; business takes place down below, at street level.
	You can recognize the natives immediately because they are almost all taller than you, a result of growing up in a low-gravity environment.
In the early days of space travel, back when engines were still so inefficient that escaping from a planet's gravity was costly and difficult, an enormous shipyard was built on the Moon where asteroids, harvested from the asteroid belt, were mined for raw materials for ships.
	The facility is still in operation, although it is now overshadowed by the far more advanced shipbuilding centers like Geminus in the Castor system.
The spaceport is rudimentary, and the main pressurized dome of the facility is probably at least half a millennium old. So many metal foil patches have been cemented to its outer wall to stop slow air leaks that in places they entirely cover the surface.
	Everything is so ancient and ramshackle that it feels almost like you have stepped back in time to the early days of human space flight. Perhaps that's what the tourists come here to experience.
Maelstrom is a stormy, geologically young world with towering mountains and frequent earthquakes. Most of the large cities are near the center of the planet's main continent, where the iron beds from an ancient ocean are exposed. Maelstrom is one of the chief exporters of iron, copper, gold, titanium, and other metals to Ada, where Lovelace Labs and the associated industries have a continuous need for raw materials.
	Extreme rock climbing is a hugely popular sport among the mining workers here, who have a tendency to be young, male, and reckless. The mountains are dramatic enough to even attract off-world climbers as tourists, though more than once a favorite climbing face has been sloughed off its mountain in an earthquake.
The spaceport is a single massive complex of buildings, with hangars large enough for even a bulk freighter or a Navy flagship. A railroad runs through several of the nearby mining towns and straight into the spaceport building itself, allowing ore and processed metal to be loaded directly from the mine cars into the waiting freighters.
A visitor to this station will immediately notice that the gravity is lower than most planets by about a third. Leaving the docking bay brings you into a tastefully decorated room with a donut-shaped reception desk made of an exotic material that you can't immediately identify. A smiling Hai in a suit behind the desk informs you that this is a respite home for the elderly, and unless you have family here, you will not be permitted to wander beyond this room. You are, however, welcome to visit with anyone who has come down or ask an orderly if you need to contact someone on business.
The spaceport here is scarcely worthy of the name and does not facilitate trading, but is well equipped to handle regular traffic bringing people to and from the station. This place appears to service the fit but retiring demographic, whose minds are as sharp as ever but benefit from fewer demanding pressures on their physical bodies.
Mainsail is a water world: although there are some settlements on dry land, the largest cities are floating, artificial islands, which travel between hemispheres over the course of the year pursuing the most ideal weather. Other, smaller islands are privately owned by single families or corporations. Mainsail is a prohibitively expensive place to live.
	Centuries ago Mainsail was home to pirates of the old-fashioned variety, fleets of motor boats or even old-fashioned sailing vessels that would launch raids against the city-ships.
The spaceport is on its own city-ship floating some distance away from the others, so that the locals need not deal with the noise and uncouth manners of spacefarers. Surrounding the port is a ring of docks where barges are moored; on platforms farther "inland," starships land.
	Few goods are produced here; most of the people rich enough to live on Mainsail are connected with interplanetary corporations whose physical business takes place elsewhere.
When families or young adults on Earth find themselves stifled by the crowded conditions on humanity's home world, Maker is where many of them end up. The Syndicate offers free transportation and housing in exchange for anyone willing to sign a five years contract to the mines or factories on Maker. The living conditions are often unpleasant, with young men and women packed into dormitories, and with those who are most in need of income taking dangerous jobs in the mines. Five or ten years of work will earn you enough to set up a homestead on any of the frontier worlds, and to many, those years are worth it.
The spaceport on Maker is enormous, but laid out very efficiently. In one sector, a steady stream of passengers, most of them young and dressed somewhat shabbily, are disembarking. They are funneled straight to a labor and immigration center, from which they will be assigned to different factories. Meanwhile, a smaller stream of older, tired-looking but better dressed workers flows in the other direction; people who have finished their terms of service and are boarding ships for other worlds.
	In the commercial sector of the port, robotic cargo trucks rumble through the streets at frightening speeds, while pedestrians walk from building to building along skyways several stories up.
Makerplace has an unusual degree of volcanic activity due to high concentrations of radioactive elements in the planet's mantle. Although it is warm by Hai standards, the abundance of geothermal energy, combined with plentiful solar energy and wind power, has made it an ideal world for manufacturing. Several cities in the temperate regions have populations of over a hundred million Hai, and the factories surrounding the cities spread out for dozens of kilometers in all directions. Near the equator, much of the land is desert or volcanic wasteland.
A fair number of the Hai walking through this spaceport are wearing no clothing at all, perhaps as a response to the warm temperatures. Given that they seem to attract no notice or disapproval by doing so, it appears that this is perfectly normal behavior. Others appear to have trimmed their fur shorter than normal as an alternative way to deal with the heat.
Mani is a small moon, with an atmosphere thick enough to keep your blood from boiling off but too thin to breathe without assistance. It is used only as a cargo depot and a spot for refueling and repairs.
	The native plant life mostly consists of pale-colored lichens and a few species of grass. The only animals are insects.
The spaceport is shaped like a wheel with no rim: a series of spokes jutting out from a central hub, where each spoke is a docking tunnel that can connect to any ship that lands beside it.
	Inside are about a dozen people and a couple hundred robots. The people and robots alike seem uninterested in any interactions with you. It is a strange sort of aloofness that you have heard is common to all the worlds in the Deep.
This mountain world is the home base of House Mallob, the powerful Arach guild in charge of commerce and shipping. All the Arach starships that are currently in use were designed here, and many of them are manufactured here as well. The motto of House Mallob's shipyards is "strong as the mountains, spacious as the skies," referring to their focus on durable hulls and high cargo capacity.
This spaceport serves as the primary repair and service center for the Arach merchant marine. At any given time hundreds of ships may be in dry-dock here to have new equipment installed or their engines or internal systems tuned for better efficiency. Meanwhile, thousands of analysts and software experts work to plan out delivery routes, schedules, and supply chains for the merchant fleets to ensure that goods are always delivered where they will be most needed, and will earn the best profit. House Mallob's finances and organizational structure are legendary for their complexity.
Mars was humanity's first attempt at terraforming. Although it remains a dry, cold desert, the air is now breathable without an oxygen tank, and there are sections of the planet where a fair number of plants can grow.
	Because far more hospitable planets are available to those with enough money to pay for interstellar travel, the farms and ranches of Mars are run mostly by poorer Earth families who want to escape the pollution and congestion, along with some young adults who do farm work to help finance their once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to stand on another world.
The spaceport on Mars is situated next to the northern Polar Basin, one of the few places where, post-terraforming, a natural lake exists. Here, far more trees grow than elsewhere on the planet, and in the few warm months when the lake is not frozen, Mars almost looks like a friendly place.
Martini is a world of exotic beaches and perfect weather. The Republic's central bank and the galactic stock exchange are headquartered here, and so much money flows through this world's economy every day that the cost of utterly controlling its weather and climate is only a drop in the bucket. Not surprisingly, real estate prices here are astronomical; a small condo in one of Martini's main cities costs more than a capital starship.
The spaceport is a set of four skyscrapers joined by bridges and platforms at various levels. Hangars are built directly into the towers themselves, with deflector shield generators set up to ensure that ships do not crash, intentionally or otherwise, while approaching the towers to dock. Inside, all the floors and walls are gleaming granite, with teams of workers constantly polishing everything to ensure that not even so much as a fingerprint smudge is visible.
A stormy world with unpredictable and rapidly changing weather, Mebla's Portion is nonetheless home to several billion Arachi and millions of members of the other Coalition species, in part because rent is cheaper here than on worlds with more idyllic weather. Many of the residents are artists or work in other creative fields that allow them to work from home on days when the weather is too violent for them to venture outside.
The spaceport is a sprawling complex of hangars and warehouses connected by covered walkways and underground tunnels. Because it has grown larger and larger over the millennia as this world's population increased, the spaceport's current layout is maze-like and seemingly random. Colored stripes painted on the floors mark the pathways between the major sections of the complex, and many local children earn a living just by wandering around offering to give directions to visitors who seem to be lost.
While the southern world of Jentu Le is where genetic research is mainly done, the small moon of Melenci here in the north is where much of that research is put to practice. The moon has only one settlement where Bunrodeans come to receive modifications to their genome. However, the Bunrodeans ensure that any modifications that are done will affect only the individual they are being done to, and will not be passed down to any offspring.
The spaceport of Melenci has a variety of what you would assume to be advertisements for genetic operations. One displays a graphic of two animated Bunrodeans in a mine. One is injected with a needle and then becomes much bulkier. The mine then collapses in on the two, and the Bunrodean who was genetically modified is shown coming out of the rubble unscathed, while the other is pulled out with bent limbs and placed on a stretcher.
Memory is a dry world, but with enough local plants to maintain a breathable atmosphere. Some of the indigenous forms of cactus-like, drought-resistant plants grow dozens of meters high. Most of the animals that have evolved here are nocturnal.
	This planet was first settled only a few centuries ago, and the population is still relatively low, but they have developed a diverse set of industries including manufacturing and medical research.
The local government has not yet seen the need to set aside funds to replace the spaceport built by the original settlers: mostly just a collection of poured concrete pads where larger ships can land without sinking into the sand of the desert.
	They have added some large hangars for richer clients and Navy ships, however, and over the years more and more buildings have sprung up along the periphery of the landing field.
This station was built primarily for harvesting hyperspace fuel. Even when the Korath were still here, the harvesting was almost entirely automated, so the station only has living quarters for a handful of people.
Despite their masters being gone, the machines and robots of this station carry out their work just as diligently as before, harvesting fuel that will now be used only by other automata.
Mere is a world almost entirely covered by oceans. The locals live most of their lives on enormous ships, almost like floating cities, which travel around collecting fish and seaweed for food or harvesting pearls from the shallows to be sold off-world. The city-ships must do their best to avoid certain latitudes where hurricanes are most common, and even so storms are a continuous threat to anyone who lives here. Weather conditions are tracked constantly by a network of satellites.
The spaceport is on the largest island on the planet. The marketplace is a large, open plaza down by the docks, where the captains of whichever city-ships are moored here at the moment can sell their goods directly to customers. Behind the plaza are large warehouses. If a storm approaches, the goods can quickly be moved inside, while the ships launch out into the deep sea where they have a better chance of weathering the storm without being smashed against the rocks.
	The entire port is filled with the almost overpowering smell of fish. You have heard that this is the best place in the galaxy for good, cheap sushi, but the smell is doing nothing for your appetite.
This large station serves as the "mission control" for the robotic ships of the Kor Mereti faction. Warships of every shape and design are clustered in its docking bays or flying patrol outside.
The central core of this station is entirely sealed off, running on its own power generators serviced by self-maintaining repair robots. Inside the core are the advanced computers that direct the Kor Mereti war effort.
Miblulub's Plenty was the first colony created by the Arachi outside of their home system, founded at a time when their home world could not produce enough food to reliably feed its entire population. This planet has long seasons and plentiful rainfall that make its temperate zones ideal for farming, while the grasslands near the tropics are mostly used for longcow ranching. Longcows are a distinctive and ill-behaved species of multi-legged cattle; their meat is a key part of the Arach diet.
Although most of this planet is rural agricultural land, the spaceport is on the outskirts of a large and prosperous city. Ten thousand years ago, in the early days of Arach interstellar travel, this city was the home of the wealthy investors and business people who funded the farming settlements, and who moved here with their families to escape the pollution and conflict on their home world of Ahr.
Midgard is a world with as much geographic diversity as Earth itself: mountains, tundra, desert, oceans, marshes, plains. It was the second world in the Deep to be settled, seven centuries ago. It is now home to dozens of major metropolitan areas and a population of over four billion. Although a select few live outside the cities and work in farming or ranching, the vast majority of people here have jobs in manufacturing.
	Food, fashion, and entertainment here all strike you as out of pace with broader galactic culture. The deep independent history of the planet makes it less likely to simply follow the latest Earth trends as the more recent colonies do.
The spaceport is located in the center of the city of New Reykjavik, a bustling metropolis which is also Midgard's center of government. The port was built five hundred years ago, and its architecture is much more conservative than other ports in the Deep: instead of domes and rounded, wavy surfaces, it is a collection of tall, square granite towers, connected by bridges at various levels. Most of the hotels and restaurants are in a central tower, slightly higher than the others.
	There is no central marketplace; instead, you can just buy or sell cargo from a computer terminal and a robotic forklift will arrive at your docking bay to carry it.
Wealthy Kimek prefer to live as close as possible to the centers of power, and in Coalition space the center of power is the Heliarch ringworlds. The dwellings here are a bit more luxurious and less densely packed than on other Kimek worlds, and the total population is less than two billion. Outside the cities, this is a hot forest world, without much local industry or natural resources.
The relative opulence of this spaceport means that the walkways and doorways are big enough to be comfortable not only for the diminutive Kimek, but for the Arachi and even the Saryds as well, and the three species mingle here in roughly even numbers. The spaceport even has a few gardens and parks, as a concession to the Saryd need for quiet and beautiful spaces.
Millrace is an overpopulated world, full of factories and manufacturing plants. It is one of several planets in this region of space where people trying to escape from the crowded squalor and polluted cities of Earth come looking for work. Most of the goods manufactured here end up being used by the Syndicate for constructing starships or driving industry on other worlds.
	The Syndicate is a fair employer: living conditions here may be squalid, but most workers are earning a living wage and some are able to save up for a new life on a more pleasant planet. The Syndicate trusts there will never be a shortage of new immigrants to replace them.
This spaceport is ugly. It was designed not for the pleasure of sight, but for processing as many people through it as possible, without collapsing onto itself.
	As the population of Millrace has grown, the spaceport has been continually expanded to support the increase in immigration; you can recognize the different sections because in the newer ones the bare concrete walls are lighter and have accumulated less soot and grime. Most of the restaurants are of the greasy spoon variety.
	Beyond the spaceport, you can see endless rows of apartment buildings receding into the horizon. Any variation in design or color from one to the next is well-hidden by the layers of filth.
The Hai homeworld is orbited by a moon that is large and dense enough to have been able to hold on to its own supply of surface water, and although the atmosphere is cold, much of that water is in liquid form due to the strong tides. In a few places, granite and basalt cliffs rise out of the water, and the Hai have built a few small settlements on the moon, as well.
This spaceport appears to be a tourist destination. The architecture is different than on other Hai worlds, and much more primitive: stone and mortar instead of polished metal. However, all the buildings are in good repair: despite their ancient appearance, they must be maintained and rebuilt on a regular basis.
Moonshake is a planet of overpopulated cities side by side with dense wilderness. A few centuries ago it became a local center of industrial production when the Syndicate began building factories here. Since then, immigrants looking for steady work have been pouring in, doubling the planet's population every few decades. It is now a regional center for the production of everything from textiles to molded plastic parts to reactor-grade plutonium.
	It is characteristic of the Syndicate that the wilderness is entirely ignored, both scientifically and agriculturally, until it is plowed under to make way for expanding industry. Nowhere else in the galaxy is the local fauna so plentiful and yet so poorly characterized.
The smog is so thick here that you could barely see the landing pad until you were only half a kilometer above it. At street level, the smog is less evident, but the air leaves a faint metallic taste in your mouth.
	The spaceport, like the rest of this city, is overcrowded, with people walking along the narrow streets and trying to thread their way in between large cargo trucks loaded with crates. You see signs for restaurants of every variety imaginable, but most of them look dirty and dimly lit.
Muninn Station, along with its brother station Huginn, serves as the gateway to the region of space known as the Deep. They both harvest and refine deuterium for use as rocket fuel, and in addition Muninn Station is used as a military base for the local defense fleets.
Most of the station is closed off to you, but you are told that if you want you may visit the large military mess hall, where hundreds of Navy members and local militia sit and eat or watch the news videos. You would normally expect a military mess hall to be a noisy, rowdy place, but this one is almost eerily silent, with a few quiet conversations going on in the corners but otherwise no noise except the video screens.
Muspel is a hot world of deserts, canyons, and warm-water oceans. It is mostly a mining and manufacturing planet, and as a result there are few lifelong inhabitants; most of the people here are migrant workers who are just trying to save up enough money to settle down somewhere more hospitable.
	Some tourists also come here, to walk through the sandstone canyons where the wind and rain has carved the rock into tall pillars and spires. A few particularly beautiful canyons are protected against strip mining by local law.
The spaceport here is rudimentary: a collection of concrete landing pads clustered around a single large building. The building is designed with layers of color and rounded spires that mimic the canyonlands. From a distance, it would be indistinguishable from the natural rock outcroppings if it were not for the glitter of sunlight off the windows. Inside, people move at a slower and calmer pace than you have seen elsewhere in the Deep.
Centuries ago, Mutiny was used as a sort of prison world for a powerful band of pirates, a place where rivals could be marooned or held for ransom, rather than killing them outright. It is a cold, dark planet, and food is scarce, but over time several villages developed in the more hospitable regions. No longer prisoners, the inhabitants who remain do so because they prefer a simple life beyond the reach of any government, on a planet that will never be stolen from them because it carries nothing of value.
The Saryd culture's fascination with the movement of the stars and planets can perhaps be attributed to the fact that their homeworld is orbited by two moons, which cause a complex and seemingly unpredictable cycle of tides as well as a variety of subtle effects on the circadian rhythms of the creatures that evolved on Saros. Saryd homes on other worlds often have night lighting cycles designed to mimic the moons of their homeworld.
Beneath Nasqueron's cloudy surface is a complex and thriving ecosystem of gas-dwelling organisms, from the massive void sprites all the way down to bacteria that inhabit tiny water droplets suspended in the air. Although the void sprites mostly feed on these organisms, it appears that in order to grow into their adult form or to give birth to young, they also need rare minerals that they can only find by feeding on asteroids, far beyond the planet's atmosphere.
Aside from fish, the Kimek diet is mostly vegetarian, but a few centuries ago an Arach entrepreneur decided to start ranching longcows here. It is an ideal world for ranching, with plenty of grassy fields. The ranches have begun a major industry, although generally only the wealthiest of Kimek are willing to spend money on longcow meat.
The spaceport is at the very center of a city that is laid out with perfect radial symmetry: six sectors, each with their own markets, schools, and other public services, and clusters of skyscrapers that can each house a million individuals. The spaceport itself is also symmetrical, with a concourse in the center and smaller and smaller landing pads radiating out from it so that the largest freighters have easiest access.
New Argentina is a world that is ideal for ranching but suitable for little else. Ranchers live as individual families or small communities surrounded by hectares of grazing land for cattle. As a result, the population is still quite low here, and the locals live isolated lives, with most families living many kilometers away from the nearest school or hospital or even from their nearest neighbor.
	Cattle handlers here do their work on horseback, because they believe modern vehicles are more likely to spook the animals.
The spaceport is on the outskirts of one of New Argentina's largest towns... which has a population of barely ten thousand people. Many of the dock workers are teenagers or barely past their teens, children of ranchers who are not drawn to the solitary sort of life that their parents enjoy. Aside from the church and the hospital, the largest building in town is "The Grange," a function hall with a sign out front advertising square dances and line dances three nights a week.
New Austria is a rugged mountain world, full of snow-capped peaks and valleys so deep and so steep that they rarely see sunlight.
	The few settlements that have been built here were developed for mining sapphires and rubies. The sapphires found in New Austria range from blue to yellow to black to clear in color, and are used both for industrial abrasives and for jewelry.
	For centuries the locals have been trying to find a deposit of diamonds, which would sell for much higher prices than sapphires, and local folklore revolves around the prosperity that would come to this world if diamonds were ever discovered.
The spaceport is nothing but a couple of landing pads on the outskirts of one of the larger mining villages, high up on a mountain ridge to allow easy access for starships. A few roads lead down from there to the village, where you can trade for local goods or get food from the miners' cafeteria.
	By the time you have walked to the center of the town, several people have already tried to sell you large "diamonds" that you strongly suspect are just clear sapphires.
	大部分土地是潮湿和沼泽地，沿海地区容易发生洪水。这里种植一些粮食作物，但大多数农民转而种植亚麻和黄麻，它们在潮湿的土壤中生长良好，用来制作亚麻布和麻布。纺织厂很热，而且通风不良，但它们提供了比农业更高和更可靠的收入。
	船长们买卖货物的市场是一个大帐篷，而不是一个永久性建筑，但它足够坚固，可以挡住雨水。货物由卡车和偶尔的气垫船运入和运出。在这里，一些有进取心的当地机械师不仅建立了一个维修店和装备店，而且还建立了一个船厂，有几艘翻新的小船出售。
New Britain is one of the few worlds in the Dirt Belt region of the galaxy that is relatively prosperous and has a large population. Although the gravity here is slightly low, it is otherwise a nearly ideal Earth-like world, rich enough in natural resources that all the raw materials for the local industry can come from on-planet.
	Among the native life forms, the most striking are the many species of large and colorful birds, most of which have learned to give the cities and the spaceport a wide berth.
The spaceport is a granite ziggurat, a step pyramid with landing pads and hangars on each level. On the top levels are the dining areas and meeting rooms for corporate visitors; the lower floors provide warehouse and storage space.
	Compared to the relatively traditional architecture of the city nearby, the spaceport looks out of place, even absurd. But to the locals, it is meant as a clear display to visitors that even though they are in a region of space known for poor and sparsely populated worlds, this particular world is far more developed.
In the very early days of hyperspace travel, most settlers chose to put down roots within a few jumps of Earth, because until more fuel depots were built, colonies farther out would seldom be visited by cargo ships. As a result, a lot of effort was put into terraforming and developing worlds that would have been passed over by most colonists today.
	New China is one such world, and it is now overpopulated, and poor enough that maintaining the terraforming equipment and climate requires almost a third of the planetary government's tax income.
The "new port" here was built several centuries ago, when the grand but impractical spaceport built by the original settlers had deteriorated to the point where it was no longer usable. This port is much simpler by comparison: just a ring of landing pads of various sizes around a large central building with ten levels of warehouse space accessible by freight elevator.
	There are always locals hanging around the port, some of them mere children, who are trying to find a cheap ride off-planet.
Due to complex atmospheric currents and swiftly changing seasons, the surface of New Finding is constantly scoured by powerful winds, making it difficult for soil to accumulate except in sheltered canyons and gorges. Each of these patches of greenery stands like an island amid a sea of bare rock. Over time, where the forests are able to take hold and grow, they spread outward and begin to turn more of the rock into habitable soil. On the exposed slopes, rock slides are a constant danger.
	Due to the limited habitable land, the local economy focuses on high tech medicine and equipment that can be produced by relatively small laboratories.
The New Finding spaceport is in a canyon, with hangars cut into both the canyon walls and delicate covered bridges linking them together. Attempting to land here without crashing into anything is a harrowing experience.
	The bottom of the canyon is a bright green ribbon of trees and plants that stands out in sharp contrast against the red and yellow layers of sandstone.
New Greenland was first settled about six hundred years ago, at the peak of the "Turf Wars" era where most planets were controlled by powerful corporations and their struggles often turned into outright warfare with privately owned fleets and armies. The people who came to New Greenland were looking for a world so marginal and undesirable that they could live here in peace without being caught in the crossfire.
	The locals here grow food in greenhouses and specialize in making warm winter clothing, which is this planet's only export.
The spaceport is near the equator, but it is still cold enough that there is always some snow on the ground.
	You have never seen as many people in fur coats as there are here; what might be considered a luxury in other parts of the galaxy is a necessity here, where the cheapest clothing material is the pelts of indigenous animals.
	From the size of the claws hanging decoratively off some of the coats, you have to give a grudging respect to the hunters. High fashion is not an industry that usually involves risk of dismemberment.
Like its namesake on ancient Earth, New Holland is a world of oceans and low country. It is an old planet, its tectonic activity long since silenced, worn smooth by eons of weather. For those who live here, flooding is a constant threat, requiring a vast network of dikes and levees. But the floods also refresh the soil, making this one of the most fertile farming worlds in the region.
	As the population has boomed, and as the farms have been consolidated and become more mechanized, large cities have grown to house factories and workers.
The spaceport is on the fringes of one of the factory towns. In the distance are row after row of identical brick buildings; in the opposite direction, a safe distance from the city, are the cooling towers of several nuclear power plants. The port itself is laid out for maximum efficiency in loading and unloading cargo regardless of the weather or time of day: a row of hangars, open at one side to ships coming in and departing, and on the other to a road carrying a steady stream of trucks.
New Iceland is a perpetually hazy volcanic world, with a slightly caustic atmosphere but enough reserves of metal and petrochemicals to draw a large number of settlers. Some of those settlers also make a living as farmers, and a few well-developed factory towns produce goods for export to other worlds.
	Many of the inhabitants wear dust masks to avoid letting the particulate matter from the volcanoes accumulate in their lungs.
Almost as soon as you stepped off your ship, your eyes began to sting. You try to breathe as shallowly as possible.
	This port consists of a single large hangar, only big enough for two or three bulk freighters, plus some overflow landing pads and old rusted storage sheds outside. There is a small cafeteria, offering you a choice between two kinds of soup, some pre-made sandwiches, or the hot meal of the day.
New India was first settled less than a century ago, and the settlers are still struggling to establish themselves. It is a hospitable climate, but the amount of labor needed to clear forests and to plow rocky fields has meant that the towns here can only grow very slowly.
	The farms grow both food crops and cotton, and very recently they have begun manufacturing their own textiles instead of just shipping the raw cotton off-world for processing.
New India's spaceport is a ring of low wooden buildings around a wide landing area paved with concrete slabs. Around the perimeter carts of trade goods are driven, some being pulled by tractors and others, by horses or oxen. You even think you see a few carts being pulled by water buffalo.
	Most of the buildings are for storage, but from somewhere nearby you can smell fresh-baked bread.
Wool clothing is considered a luxury in most of human space, because enough oil is mined on most planets to make synthetic clothing much cheaper than raising and shearing sheep. However, here on New Kansas, wool is the primary industry.
	The land is mostly rolling green hills and shallow streams, ideal for grazing. However, unwary travelers hiking through the idyllic countryside have been known to be attacked by savage packs of feral sheep, so this world is not without unique dangers of its own.
The spaceport includes several stores selling wool garments, each worth easily ten times as much as the clothes you are wearing. A few of the visitors milling around seem genuinely interested in the clothing, but most of them, like you, are just ship captains who see wool clothing as nothing more than a pricey luxury good that can be sold elsewhere for a good profit.
	The port authority employs several people on horseback whose sole job is to keep the landing pads clear of wild sheep.
New Portland is a cloudy planet orbiting a dim star; the only reason it is not completely frozen is because of the heat trapped by its upper atmosphere. There are only a handful of towns here, and nothing big enough to warrant being called a city. Most of the settlers are subsistence farmers who can only dream about life on other worlds. Many houses here do not even have running water or personal computers.
	Some of the farms near the spaceport are planted with different crops forming abstract patterns visible from the air. Such a whimsical extravagance seems particularly odd when you consider that the owners will never be able to afford to see their fields from that angle. But perhaps that is precisely the point.
The largest town on New Portland has set aside a landing area for ships, but it is barely what could be called a spaceport. Aside from the refueling station and a few sheds, there are no other buildings, just an open field of packed gravel, with grass and weeds peeking up in places where it has avoided the blast from landing spacecraft. A few farmers have parked wagons here and are trading food and other goods with the visiting ships.
New Sahara is mostly desert and savanna, with very little precipitation.
	A century ago, some entrepreneurs settled here and built a factory complex that is entirely powered by wind and solar energy, because there are so few cloudy days here and the wind and sunshine are so reliable. The factory is mostly autonomous, with only a few thousand people living here to perform maintenance or to grow crops in irrigated fields.
The spaceport consists of a few large concrete slabs, each big enough for a dozen small ships or a pair of bulk freighters to land on. Farther away are fields of solar panels and the factories that they power. The spaceport buildings themselves, however, are underground, where less energy is needed to keep the air cool. Light pipes bring sunlight down from the surface to illuminate the subterranean storage caverns and living quarters, while keeping the searing heat of the sunlight out.
New Switzerland is a world where tectonic activity has left deeply folded and fractured mountains across much of the planet's surface.
	In many places, the topsoil is too thin and rocky to support farming, but many people have settled here anyway, drawn to the beauty of the mountains. A few ski resorts operate in the mountains, and in recent years a gemstone mining industry has begun to develop as well.
The spaceport is in a valley, surrounded by mountains so high that their tops are often lost in the clouds. From the port town, tourists can ride a cog railway to the tops of several of the tallest mountains nearby.
	Most of the buildings in town are wood framed, and some are old fashioned half-timber buildings with whitewashed plaster packed in between the beams. It is not a technologically advanced world, but it is a very beautiful place.
New Tibet is a world of jagged mountains and deeply shadowed valleys.
	Although it has been inhabited for centuries, in many places the terrain is so rugged that roads cannot be built, leaving several of the smaller towns almost completely isolated. Taking advantage of this isolation, several orders of Buddhist monks have built monasteries here.
	In the lowlands, large farms support sprawling cities full of factories, a striking contrast to the simplicity and isolation of the mountain villages.
The spaceport is in a hilly region, just outside of the largest city, with a view of a valley full of farms that stretch for tens of kilometers, all the way down to the ocean.
	The port is much less modern than the city nearby; it was built by the early settlers and has not been significantly updated since then, because the focus has been on improving life for the locals, not for their occasional visitors.
A planet of violent storms and frequent earthquakes, New Tortuga does not have a lot to offer the average spacefarer. The most significant settlements on the planet are built predominantly underground, far from any fault lines, with only obscure, hardened access areas. Combined with the fortress-like blast doors that blockade the spaceport entrances, New Tortuga is the perfect place for those looking for somewhere to hide.
	Most of the inhabitants of this planet are Syndicate dissidents who mainly support themselves through manufacturing. The Syndicate often destroys pirate factories at their borders, but their fleets do not find the monetary cost of venturing as far as New Tortuga worth the benefit. Here, shipyards, factories, and outfitters provide a continuous supply of goods and services for the system.
As you walk through the spaceport, scattered amidst the bars and black-markets, you notice a surprising number of religious buildings. There are a variety of churches, synagogues, mosques, temples, and others you can't quite remember the names of. Most of the shops are run not by pirates, but by ordinary folk, many wearing religious garb. The citizens here interact with pirates with friendliness and warmth, rather than the hostility and fear you see on other pirate worlds.
	The relative peace is frequently broken by a pirate band wandering through the spaceport. While perhaps an auditory nuisance, the pirates here are generally more obedient and disciplined than those seen on other planets. Their ships are more advanced too, judging by the armaments and engines you noticed in the hangar.
New Wales is home to a few mining outposts which extract and refine rare earth minerals and heavy metals. It is dangerous work: the mines are deep underground and prone to noxious gases and cave-ins, and the refineries work with molten radioactive materials and caustic chemicals.
	Due to the somewhat dim light of the star Algorel, and the cloudiness of the atmosphere, this is not a good world for farming, and the population remains quite small.
The warehouses at the spaceport are kept under continuous guard due to the high value of the refined metals they contain. There are several missile silos and surface-to-air laser turrets as well; New Wales has survived multiple pirate attacks in the last decade.
	Within the spaceport cafeteria, however, the locals are quite friendly and excited to connect with visitors and hear news of the outside world. The cafeteria is cooking lamb stew, and the smell of it pervades the whole building.
New Washington is a planet huddled close to a dim, red sun in an otherwise frozen system. It orbits so close to the sun that the two are locked together, with one side of New Washington continuously facing the sun and the other in perpetual darkness.
	The only villages are in the twilight region in between, and there the settlers make a living by mining for metal and for oil, a relic of a warmer period when more life flourished here and the planet spun more quickly on its axis.
In this narrow ring between the baking sun of New Washington's day side, and the endless night beyond, a few native plants and animals still flourish: weirdly colored trees and grasses, and a few insect-like creatures flying among them.
	Rats, accidentally introduced by the settlers, also flourish here. A small, nearly deserted cafeteria is selling stew and mashed potatoes. You are almost certain the stew is made with rat meat.
Newhome's gravity, climate, and geography is very similar to the Hai homeworld. Several billion Hai live here. Most dwell in large factory cities, but there are also ranches in the undeveloped areas where the Hai raise animals that are larger than elephants but produce wool similar to sheep. Shearing them is a dangerous undertaking, but their wool can be used to make excellent, long-lasting clothing.
The roads in the spaceport are very wide, so that Hai ranchers can lead their massive, sheep-like beasts along them. The animals seem docile enough, but their size is alarming.
	Most of the shops only sell clothing made for the Hai, but a few enterprising artisans have begun making clothing for humans as well: larger dimensions, and no tail holes in the pants.
Nifel is a cold world, with summers too short to grow most crops, and very little indigenous wildlife aside from thick-furred mammals and some migratory birds that travel from one hemisphere to the other every year.
	Four centuries ago, when much of human space had been in travel quarantine for a decade to block the spread of the Rigellian Plague, it was here that researchers discovered a cryophilic bacterium growing in the permafrost that could be used to combat and eventually eliminate the plague. Some research labs and manufacturing plants still remain in operation here.
The port is located near the equator, but the air is still uncomfortably cold. As with many of the fanciest buildings in the Deep, the spaceport here is built of carbon fiber and plastic composite instead of more traditional materials. The particular composite used here is slightly translucent, so the hallways and hangars are all bathed in dim and diffuse sunlight.
	The spaceport is large enough to house ten times the number of people and ships that are currently here.
Nimbus is a stormy ocean world, where a rain shower can descend on you almost without warning, only to be replaced with equal suddenness by bright sunshine. It draws mostly the sort of people who can weather such changes with placid, unperturbed calm; tourist guidebooks often rank Nimbus near the top in their lists of "friendliest natives."
	All the industry on Nimbus is driven by the sea. Fish are plentiful, and the oceans here also contain some unique microorganisms that are harvested to extract useful medical compounds.
The spaceport is on a small island, but well above the high water mark. The mixture of ocean spray and fog and drizzling rain is enough to turn your clothes damp even just on the short walk from your landing pad to the main cluster of buildings.
	Thankfully the weather is warm, but you are glad to find a cozy, dry, and welcoming space in the coffeehouse across from the warehouse district.
Norn is a water world, with low gravity but an atmosphere dense enough to breathe easily. Large mats of seaweed and algae form natural rafts that drift around with the ocean currents, and a few intrepid settlers have colonized them, people who prefer a life of relative solitude and are willing to trust their fates to wherever the winds might take them. Others have settled the few, low islands, which are prone to frequent flooding.
	Fish are common here, including a few species of flying fish which travel in large packs and are a considerable nuisance for the land-dwellers.
The spaceport is on one of the larger islands, a network of small buildings connected by bridges and raised up on enormous stilts about fifty meters high. Cargo winches are used to load and unload cargo from the boats that dock below. Starships dock in individual hangars, to protect them from the wind.
	The whole complex sways slightly, almost imperceptibly, as if it were a large boat at sea. The walkways all have tall railings, but you still find yourself afraid to venture too near the edge or to look down at the island and the sea below. The locals, however, walk swiftly and gracefully, with no sign of fear.
Although much of Oasis is desert, a few tropical regions exist that are more suited to human habitation. The settlements are small, and rely mostly on agriculture, ranching, and textiles to produce goods that can be sold off-world.
	For those who are drawn to simple frontier living, it is a paradise, where you can earn a living just by working with your hands, and where the only mode of transportation anyone needs is a horse. Many outsiders, of course, view the Oasis lifestyle as backward and primitive.
Most cargo on Oasis is carried by horse-drawn wagons. Some of them are made of steel, but others seem to be built of hand-hewn wood. The sight of horses drawing loads onto and off of gleaming starships is almost surreal.
Oberon Station is a deuterium refinery owned and operated by the Syndicate, and aside from a few docking bays for visiting ships to use in an emergency, the rest of the station is sealed off to non-employees.
The atmosphere here is a toxic mix of ammonia, sulfur, and methane. Although breathable by human beings if necessary, the locals use masks to reduce the risk of chronic respiratory problems. Even so, the life expectancy here is short, but that is partly because the two best-paying industries are oil drilling and mining for radioactive elements.
The spaceport is a long landing strip paved in asphalt, with warehouses on either side of it constructed from stone and mortar. Inside are stacked lead-lined crates of radioactive materials for sale.
	Unlike many Dirt Belt worlds, you see few curious children watching ships land or playing among the buildings; this is not the sort of world where many people choose to put down roots and build a family.
A massive plaque attached to a bulkhead in the promenade entry proudly indicates that station has been run by Yoot Ki Magnetic Fuel Harvesting for over 75,000 years. It seems that the powerful magnetic field of the gas giant below makes this station an ideal location for harvesting and re-harvesting the massive volume of fuel demanded by the Hai space industry. Despite its long history of operation, the station seems to be in an excellent state of repair.
The spaceport, which consists of a wide promenade running around the interior of the station, seems to be divided into two distinct areas: the lower level, which contains all manner of amenities, services, and food places, and the upper level, which hosts the official Yoot Ki sales center in addition to a suite of different facilities for various research institutes. As it turns out, the powerful magnetic field of the world below also has certain advantages for scientific experiments.
	A holographic sign floating next to the stairs proudly states that over 7,000 years have elapsed since the last fatal safety accident.
This refinery was built shortly after the nearby dry dock station was finished, to ensure the system was self-sufficient to provide the hyperspace fuel needed for the visiting ships. A small fleet of tanker ships is docked on specially marked hangar bays, always ready to bring the fuel elsewhere if needed.
	"Ogmur" is the name of the gas giant below, named after a giant snake-like creature of Arach mythology. With an abnormally dense core and storms more ruthless than in any other gas giants in the Coalition, it swallowed the first five predecessors of this station before they could be completed, and though this one has remained in a stable orbit for thousands of years after its completion, superstition surrounding the planet makes it so that the Siphon receives very few visitors.
While technically part of the system's "Guardian" military complex, there's little to no Heliarch control over the free space in this station, so a few shops and branded restaurants have opened up to serve the local workers and occasional visitors. Whether by necessity due to the lack of services in the system, or simply out of boredom within the monotony of the station, the food here is by far the best in the system and even better than on some Coalition planets.
	With the exclusive goal of serving as a large-scale refinery, the station has far less living space than the system's main attraction, often leading to semi-crowded areas in spite of the low amount of pedestrian traffic here.
Due to an overabundance of natural resources and arable land when the planet was discovered, Okoity has achieved the highest population of any Bunrodean world, with a staggering 24 billion people. All but the most inhospitable regions of the planet have been settled in some shape or form.
	Unfortunately, time has taken its toll on the planet, as the once prosperous lands have run dry as a result of millennia of industrial habitation. While the planet isn't completely barren of natural resources, an increasing large amount of supplies must be brought in from other worlds to sustain the population.
The spaceport of Okoity is completely packed with Bunrodeans. You have little room to maneuver as you explore the spaceport while trying to not bump into anyone. Many of the Bunrodeans here show signs of being genetically engineered, from Bunrodeans with extra limbs to one that you see up high climbing on walls and jumping from building to building to avoid the crowd below.
From afar, Olohoa looks like it might be a pleasant place to live, with clear oceans not too dissimilar to what you might find on a Paradise World. But your ship's sensors tell you a different story, one of a planet with immense amounts of ultraviolet radiation bombarding its surface. Nothing short of an extremophile could survive on the surface here, and any life in the oceans is likely deep down where no radiation can reach.
An Earth-like planet with high biodiversity, at first glance Osaeli appears to be an idyllic world where no lifeform ever became predominant; but looking more closely, the signs of an ancient devastation can still be seen. In the middle of the forests, huge amounts of debris are scattered across large areas, and scans reveal many underground bunkers, partly destroyed and filled with water.
The many beveling formations here provide the Gegno Scin with a rich amount of materials for their cities and ships. Below are small woodlands that seem to be stripped down one way or another, with few living areas scattered about. It is apparent that this planet has been worn down over time, both to natural and unnatural causes.
A few Scin in the spaceport are equipped with what looks like heavy mining gear instead of normal pilot attire, and are never seen boarding any spacecraft. Rather than cautious, they appear to be genuinely curious of your presence, staring at you in fascination. Presumably, these Scin spend most of their days deep in this planet's mines, so seeing anything beyond minerals or machinery, let alone foreigners, is quite astonishing to them.
While its short distance from Gerenus makes it seem only barely capable of supporting life, Palarei's surface is full of thickets of a small spiky bush native to this planet. Oddly enough, very few settlements on the planet appear to have been destroyed by weapon fire; most facilities are covered in meters of dust and sand but, other than that, appear to be quite operative.
The whipping winds of Palatine are a prime example of how the inner mechanics of gas giants are poorly understood; when it was initially discovered by the Remnant, its winds spun around the globe at speeds far in excess of what astrophysical models predicted, as if they had recently been subject to a massive acceleration.
	Over the subsequent centuries the winds have been imperceptibly slowing toward normally predicted velocities, but at their current rate it will be many millennia before they reach them.
Very similar to its sister station of Seli'het, Parii'het was still under construction when it was abandoned by its creators. Today, it floats uninhabited in this rarely visited section of space, approached occasionally by the automated drones that mindlessly continue to carry new supplies to the massive cargo section. If the Ka'het attacked this station, it would be made entirely inoperable in a short time.
Pearl is an idyllic, forested world, mostly set aside as a wildlife sanctuary for imported exotic species. Each of the islands and continents houses animals and plants from a different planet's biosphere. Terraforming stations and satellites maintain the atmospheric gas levels in order to keep each island at the proper temperature and rainfall level.
	Some of the islands are open for tourists and safari tours, and even for hunting. Others are owned by private companies and used for medical research. People with training in veterinary medicine are always in high demand here.
The spaceport is on one of the smaller islands, where the outside contagions brought in by visiting ships - including the rats and insects that inevitably stow away inside cargo crates - can be kept in isolation. The spaceport is located on a mountain slope immediately above a sea port, where visitors can charter a ship to one of the other islands. The warehouses for incoming and outgoing supplies are massive, but have been dug partly into the mountain so that the part of them that extends above ground is less prominent.
Pelubta Station was built shortly after the Arachi discovered the hyperdrive, initially to take advantage of the massive amounts of solar power generated by the nearby stars. However, now it is mainly used as a hyperspace fuel refinery. Although it has endured some solar flares, constant maintenance means that the station still doesn't show its age.
	Pelubta Station is also used to study one of the binary stars in this system, since it has a similar makeup and age to one orbited by a Heliarch ringworld. Most of this research is focused on predicting stellar phenomena, especially the most abnormal ones.
The intake section has a consistently high traffic, mostly made up of Coalition merchants supplying the station and leaving with shipments of fuel to take to other Arach worlds. The science section seems to be completely closed off to non-Heliarchs. Considering that the work done here should be relatively benign, the station may also serve other purposes.
The first structure of such scale the Coalition ever built, this station was designed and fully built before the War of Independence. Originally a Saryd attempt at emulating the Quarg's own ringworlds, almost all living quarters and amenities were stripped away over the course of the war in favor of a gigantic particle accelerator used by the Saryds to research weapons and shielding technology. Nowadays, its use has shifted into a more general-purpose research facility.
	Completed dozens of centuries before the war, the structure's original plating failed to last the test of time unscathed, unlike the Quarg's own, and is in a constant need of replacement to prevent the miniature ring's integrity from being compromised. Every so often, maintenance crafts can be seen conducting repairs on some outer section of the ring.
Having very little in the form of windows to look out into the system, and not much to gaze at the small, barren planet it encompasses, the station sees very few visitors--mostly cargo haulers bringing in supplies for the crew staffed here or the occasional university groups coming to visit the particle accelerator and deepen their knowledge.
As with all refineries in the Deep, Phoenix Station is government-owned. You cannot imagine who would want to live here; despite reflective hull plating and active cooling systems, the station is uncomfortably hot. Nearly all the work is done by robots and computers, with only a skeleton crew of people supervising. Every time the station's orbit brings it through the planet's shadow, the temperature drops briefly and the entire station creaks ominously as it cools.
Pilot is used as a research and testing station for Lovelace Labs. The research buildings are not open to non-employees. From a distance it looks almost like a small war is going on, with missiles being fired from a silo toward a hilltop where an anti-missile turret is picking them off one by one.
	Rumors say that the Sidewinder Missile engineering team and the Missile Defense team are in fierce competition with each other, and whichever team is currently losing to the other must buy them lunch every Friday.
The workers grudgingly refuel your ship, but it is quite clear that you are out of place here. Nearly everyone in the spaceport is wearing a lab coat or a uniform, and several groups of people halt their conversations as soon as you pass within earshot.
Pincian is a small rocky moon, tiny enough to avoid most asteroids attracted by the nearby gas giant of Palatine. Nevertheless, a huge crater, old enough to have collected some dust and regolith, dominates its surface. Whatever crashed here, it must be tens of thousands of years since the impact.
	There are some small-scale mining operations all around Pincian, but everything around the crater has been left untouched except for a Remnant research station nestled into one of its edges.
Placer is uninhabited aside from one small mining outpost; the atmosphere contains uncomfortable levels of ammonia and sulfur dioxide. To avoid respiratory injury from long term exposure, those who live here must wear breathing gear when they leave their pressurized homes and mine shafts.
	Several scientific experiments over the last few centuries have sought to introduce microorganisms that would break down the harmful chemicals and transform the atmosphere to make it safer for human beings to breathe, but none have been successful.
The port consists of a large atmospheric dome, with landing pads and airlocks around the periphery. Although brief exposure to the air is not considered harmful, you find yourself holding your breath as you run from your ship to the airlock.
	Inside the dome, hanging gardens and open park land create a much more hospitable place, but the spaceport is nearly deserted, aside from one small pub that seems to be full of mine workers whose shift has just ended.
Plort's Water is an ocean world, with no landforms except for some scattered volcanic archipelagos. A few of the larger islands are home to small Arach settlements, and others live aboard "island-ships" that can each carry tens of thousands of individuals. There is very little industry here, but many of the locals are involved in biological experiments or in categorizing the millions of species that inhabit the oceans.
The spaceport is built on the slopes of a dormant volcano, and only has space for a few dozen ships to land at any one time. Too few visitors come here to support any shops or restaurants in the spaceport itself. In the village, the cheapest and most abundant food is a variety of soups, cakes, and puddings that all look and smell as if they are made from processed algae.
Until very recently, Poisonwood was home to a slave colony run by a powerful outlaw cartel. Tens of thousands of slaves were forced to work in hot, dirty manufacturing plants or irrigating fields out under the burning sun. Finally, in the year 2985, a Republic Navy strike force defeated the cartel and liberated the slaves. The Navy also supplied the manpower and equipment necessary to transform the factories and towns into a more livable setting for those who chose to remain, while giving others free passage off-world.
	Today, most of the inhabitants are children of the liberated slaves, and like their parents they remain grateful and fiercely loyal to the Republic.
The starport is a hodgepodge of small metal structures, built from the remains of Navy and pirate ships that fought for control of this world. The locals are unusually courteous and proud to welcome you to their planet.
	The tavern in the center of the port is named The Parting Glass. The walls are covered with photographs from after the war: liberated slaves boarding Navy ships to leave this planet that had brought them so much pain; Navy officers leaving their ships to retire on this world that they liberated; friends gone away, and friends left behind. It is a strange feeling to sit here so deeply immersed in signs of a history that you had no part in.
Poseidos is an ocean world, speckled with tiny islands. The people who live on the islands almost all make a living by fishing. The oceans are so bountiful that the locals say that only a fool or a very lazy person would starve here; there are enough fish even near shore that most families just own a small boat rather than the larger vessels designed for the deep ocean.
	The only scarce resource here is fresh drinking water. The village roofs are designed so that every drop of rain can be collected and conserved.
The spaceport is on one of the larger archipelagos. It is built half on land, and half over the water, with a series of bridges and wide canals allowing foot traffic above and cargo barges below. The bridges are built with stone arches rather than steel truss structures, partly to allow more clearance for boats below but also partly just for appearance. For a spaceport, it is an unusually beautiful place.
Prime is a very Earth-like ocean world, with a population of over a billion people. It is home to Betelgeuse Shipyards, and much of the industry on the planet is related to ship-building in one way or another, like refining and working metal, or developing exotic new hull and framing materials. Although some mining is done in more remote regions of the planet, Prime is reliant on shipments of metal and other goods to feed its industries.
The spaceport is a long, multi-story building designed to look like a carrier starship, but much larger. It is built mostly of steel and glass, with the sturdy beams and girders that support the building visible on the inside, giving it the look of a ship still in construction, whose interior has not yet been fully fitted out. In nearby hangars, final assembly is being done on ships, some of which have been completed and are now for sale.
This planet appears to be the Pug capital. Cities with impossibly high towers, connected by arches and bridges, are sprinkled across the landscape, and surrounding the cities are shorter, uglier buildings used as factories. However, a surprising amount of the land area is unsettled, its natural beauty untouched. Given how much damage humans did to Earth before discovering the hyperdrive, you find it hard to fathom how a species isolated in a single star system could have enough restraint to leave their home so pristine.
The primary spaceport here is marked by an enormous collection of arches forming an open-air dome. Based on the power cables and devices attached to the sides of the arches, you suspect that the entire dome can be protected by an energy shield if necessary. Inside it, landing platforms jut out from the arches at many different levels.
This planet has a handful of Pug cities on it, full of tall, graceful spires and arches. However, most of the land area is either left in its natural state, or in use for mining; it seems to abound in both oil reserves and metal ore. The climate is somewhat cold by human standards, but still quite livable. You are not sure if that is because the Pug were just lucky enough to have a star system with two hospitable planets, or whether they have employed some sort of terraforming.
The spaceport here is a set of seven tall towers of varying heights, each with landing pads jutting out from its sides like leaves from the stalk of a plant. The towers are joined to each other at various levels by arches.
Quicksilver is a world of highly variable, violent weather: hurricanes, hail, and earth-shaking thunderstorms. Under the planet's crust, it is equally turbulent and unpredictable, leading to frequent earthquakes and volcanic activity.
	Although Quicksilver has vast mineral resources, the tectonic activity makes underground mining far too dangerous. However, a few enterprising settlers work in surface mining and mountaintop removal. The results are ugly, but this is a far too inhospitable world for anyone to care what it looks like.
The spaceport is a single, enormous hangar built as a geodesic dome. It is filled with the constant dull roar of rain beating against the dome from above. When an especially strong blast of wind strikes the dome, its joints flex slightly and you can see the whole structure ripple and move.
	Amenities here are minimal: a small cafeteria selling hot drinks and warm stew, and a marketplace mostly filled with stacks of refined steel and aluminum and titanium for sale. A smaller stack of lead-lined crates hold radioactive metals. The air is not particularly cold here, but it is very damp, and the howling weather outside seems to weigh on everyone's spirits.
While otherwise resembling a fairly typical moon, Quirinal is notable for the lava rifts that seem to be an inexplicably constant feature on its surface. For lack of a better description, it looks like the moon was struck a glancing blow by some sort of massive force, and the resulting chasm has been oozing lava ever since.
Despite the astrophysical anomalies, there appears to be no current activity on the surface.
Rand is a desert world, too dry for much farming and with gravity low enough to be uncomfortable for most human beings. It is, however, the best source of heavy metals in the galactic south.
	Aside from the managers of the mining companies, nearly all the people here are migrant workers from elsewhere in the Dirt Belt, who have come to spend a season working for the relatively high wages that uranium mining offers, either to send money off-world or to save it up in order to build a better life for themselves.
The landing pads here are poured concrete, raised up slightly above the level of the desert to keep them from being buried in sand. A few workers are constantly driving brush sweepers across the unoccupied pads. The air is filled with sand particles and dust. Aside from the storage sheds, there are only two buildings, each with a large sign out front: "Labor" and "Trade."
Billions of Arachi live on this warm ocean world. It is home to House Debdo, one of the largest of the great Arach houses, which is composed of those who are employed in various service industries. This is a popular tourist destination not just for the Arachi, but for the Kimek as well and even a few particularly adventuresome Saryds.
Many of the Kimek and Arachi tourists here are rather scantily clad, wearing what must be their equivalent of swimwear. Of the few Saryds who are mingling with them, most are clad from head to hoof in thin white robes that block the glaring sun. Apparently Saryds have a more conservative sense of modesty than the other Coalition species.
	Many of the shops and restaurants have signs on the doors that are oddly reminiscent of human beach towns: the signs explain pictorially that all patrons must be wearing pants.
This station is a refinery where ore from asteroids is processed into metal. Larger asteroids are processed where they are; smaller ones are brought into the refinery itself to be mined.
This station has several bays large enough that a small asteroid can be steered inside. Harvester microbots then work their way into seams of metal in the asteroid, digging deeper and deeper until the asteroid is honeycombed with small tunnels and all the metal-rich veins have been extracted.
Relic was colonized over seven hundred years ago, back when the construction of the first hyperdrive was still in living memory. At this point, most starships had a very limited range, so the stars adjacent to Earth were the only viable options for any colonization attempts. Because of this, Relic seemed like it was going to become a major colony, despite its low gravity, harsh environment, and limited resources.
	However, this would not last. In less than fifty years, the colonies had spread to much more favorable planets, and Relic was left behind by most human development.
The spaceport here is located in the only recognized city on Relic, and it's only designed to handle the occasional merchant or Navy ship on its way to or from Earth. It doesn't even use standard landing pads used on most other planets. Instead, the natives seem to have set up some concrete slabs next to some gas pumps and called it a day. Despite this, proximity to Earth's traffic guarantees a few ships land at the spaceport every day. A running joke among the locals is that the chief industry of Relic is the gas station.
Most Kimek are proud to be members of the Coalition, but those who are either suspicious of the other species or simply want to be as far away from the Heliarch ringworlds as possible when the Quarg return with retribution, choose to live here. As a result, despite its remote location this world supports a population of over eight billion. Many of the cities have defensive gun emplacements on their outskirts, yet another sign of the local paranoia.
There are almost no non-Kimek in this spaceport, and as an alien visitor from beyond Coalition space you receive a considerable amount of scrutiny. Several of the local restaurants outright refuse to serve any species but the Kimek, claiming that their patrons would lose their appetites if forced to witness the disgusting eating habits of other species. (The Kimek generally eat their food by vomiting digestive fluid onto it, waiting for it to dissolve, and then slurping up the soupy mixture.)
Retilie is an oceanic world; more than 95% of the planet's surface is covered by oceans, which can be several kilometers deep. Few traces of coastal villages are still visible, mostly composed of ancient metallic formations standing some kilometers from the seaside, where the occasional high waves can't reach them. A few small cities on the mainland are in a better state, but without anyone to maintain them, vegetation has grown to completely cover many of the surviving buildings.
Reunion is one of the most Earth-like planets found by the early settlers, all the way down to its moon and tides. It has grown into a mostly urban world, which supplies manufactured goods of all sorts to the neighboring systems.
	Local politics are unusually lively for a Republic world, to the point where a seat in the local legislature is often more hotly contested than one in the Republic Parliament. Topics of debate include trade and taxation, of course, but also seemingly fringe issues like biodiversity regulations for city green space. It may be that a world with no terraforming needs is focusing instead on tweaking society itself.
The spaceport, although designed as a clean and modern building, is a place of barely controlled chaos: vendors selling food on the sides of the hallways, tourist families with young children, and even a few farmers driving cattle. People of every age and race and occupation rub shoulders here, but there is no sign of the extreme sort of poverty that you have seen on some other worlds.
The Saryds are the only known species who successfully visited another world when their technology was still in the age of steam. The scientist who first landed here was piloting a ramshackle rocket ship of dizzying complexity. Modern analysis of his plans indicates that his flight had less than a one in ten thousand chance of success. This has led to speculation that he was either secretly assisted by friendly aliens, or completely insane, or possibly both.
This is the crown jewel of the Heliarchs, a ringworld that was completed by the Quarg before the Coalition formed and drove them away. It now serves both as a center of finance and trade, and as the seat of the Heliarch government, which is made up of "consuls" who have been selected by the other Heliarchs from among their number in such a way that all three species always have equal representation. The Heliarchs, in turn, are selected from among the best and brightest members of each species. Despite the occasional resistance to it, this meritocracy has survived ten times longer than any human democracy.
At any given time, thousands of young people are in training here to become "interpreters," the Heliarch agents who serve as translators and mediators on all the Coalition worlds. As they rise through the ranks, some of those agents will be honored by being elevated to the rank of Heliarch, gaining a voice in the selection of new consuls and perhaps one day even being selected themselves.
	Heliarch rank is not hereditary, and the children of Heliarchs are given no special preferment for promotions or educational opportunities.
This ringworld is the center of operations for the Heliarch defense forces. Although they have not had to fight a major space battle in thousands of years, they still maintain a sizable fleet, believing that if they ever allow their vigilance to waver, the Quarg may return and try to reclaim what was once theirs.
The hallways of the spaceport echo with the footsteps of groups of marching defense force cadets. Each group contains a mixture of Saryds, Kimek, and Arachi, to help them learn allegiance to all the peoples of the Coalition instead of just identifying with their own species.
	The designer who invented the Heliarch uniforms, with a distinctive style that unifies them despite the wildly different body shapes of the three species, must have been an absolute genius.
This Heliarch ringworld is their center for science, mostly trying to understand and reverse engineer Quarg technology rather than inventing new devices of their own. But after thousands of years of controlling these ringworlds, it seems that their inner workings are still something of a mystery to the Heliarchs.
	"Construction" work is always ongoing here, but rather than extending the backbone of the ring itself, which uses exotic materials that they cannot replicate, the Heliarchs are just adding sheets of solar panels and other extensions to the sides of the ring.
Most of this ringworld is off-limits to everyone but the Heliarch scientists, not just for the sake of secrecy but also for safety. When the Heliarchs first began exploring the machinery of this ringworld, hundreds of them died in explosions, gas leaks, and power discharges after trying to cut their way into inaccessible areas. More recently, an entire team of scientists vanished from one of the main hangars without a trace and without any sign of resistance.
This Quarg station, although pristine and kept in high order, has been constructed rather recently compared to the complete ringworld the next system over. It appears to be purposed as some sort of resting spot for tourists, though very few docking bays are in use. A hauntingly low number of Quarg are seen walking about the brightly lit abstract hallways of glass with only the faintest hum of machinery.
Only a few small alien transports can be seen docked with this station, hooked up to strange devices that seem to match the designs of their ships. Other than that, the alien's presence here seems to be kept at an extreme minimum, with at most one or two seen passing by occasionally.
This is a stormy, cloud-covered planet, where fog banks flow through the valleys like dark, cold, slow-moving rivers, and the sun is seldom visible. Aside from some dull blue-gray moss and lichen, there are few living things here. The ground is warmer than the air above it, due to an abundance of radioactive elements in the planet's crust.
	Most of the surface is ocean, but atop one of the higher mountains is an odd, abandoned spaceport.
Perhaps the oddest thing about this planet is this spaceport: a ring of landing pads surrounding a collection of fuel tanks. The landing pads are not concrete or any other material humans customarily use, but monolithic slabs of basalt. One of the fuel tanks has a human-style connector on it, but there are a dozen other connectors branching off from it as well.
	A few insectoid robots scuttle slowly across the tanks and landing pads, removing ice and rust and lichen and polishing the surfaces of the tanks. No living creatures are present.
Rust is smaller than Earth, but very similar in climate. Much of its surface is suitable for agriculture, with wide open grasslands and dense forests. There are very few mountains, since the planet has low levels of tectonic activity.
	The chief industry on Rust, however, are the factories and labs for Kraz Cybernetics, a maker of robots, computers, and advanced weapons systems. The planet's population is not large, but the schools are among the best in the region, and many of the inhabitants - even those who live on the farms - hold at least one advanced degree.
The spaceport is a gleaming, modern steel structure, with docks extending out from it like spokes from an axle, and magnetic clamps to hold ships of any size.
	As you walk into the building, you cannot help gawking. Most of the shops are staffed by robots instead of human beings, and the elevators are so smooth and silent that you can hardly tell they are moving at all. Even though you know that all this technology was provided by the marketing department of Kraz Cybernetics as a showcase of their capabilities, you cannot help but be inspired by this vision of what the future of all planets might some day be.
The combination of a dry, temperate climate and its prestigious location near the Heliarch ringworlds make Rusty Second a highly desirable home for wealthy Kimek. Nothing is cheap here, and there is very little local industry aside from the banks, shipping conglomerations, and other corporations whose senior management offices are located here.
Although this is a Kimek world, the spaceport and the surrounding city more closely resembles Saryd architecture. This port was developed in the days when the Kimek had first made contact with the other species of the Coalition, and were still in awe of the technological sophistication of the Saryds.
	The original architecture also borrowed heavily from the Quarg, but anything reminiscent of them was stripped away after the Coalition's rebellion succeeded.
Long ago, this planet was home to several Korath oil mining settlements, but now all that remains visible are the tops of a few dozen of the tallest buildings. Everything else has been buried by sandstorms.
	Due to a recent shift in climate the deserts have begun shrinking once more, with local vegetation growing to cover more and more land each year, but the Korath are no longer here to benefit from the change.
It is unclear what the primary purpose of this station is. The station contains numerous greenhouses where a wide variety of plants, and even some small animals, are kept. Other parts of the station are closed off to non-Korath visitors.
This spaceport is relatively unpopulated for a station of this size, and the few Korath who are here are wandering about with the sort of deeply absorbed attitude you would expect from a scientist or an academic.
	In one corner of the spaceport is a cage housing several large rodents and some small shrubs, lit by a warm sun-lamp. The rodents are quite acrobatic.
This world is relatively hot and dry by human standards, but nearly ideal for the Kimek, and more than fifteen billion of them live here in cities where the skyscrapers are so densely packed that many of the streets never receive direct sunlight. The residential areas tend to be spread out along the banks of rivers, so the cities are linear, with factories and other industry on their fringes. Access to limitless skilled labor makes it cheap to manufacture almost anything here.
The spaceport facility is on an island in the center of a river, surrounded by a city so large that the rows of skyscrapers stretch all the way to the horizon. Civilian aircraft, boats, and cargo trucks swarm around the spaceport, bringing goods and people to and from the residences and the outlying factories.
This was the seat of government and last military stronghold of the Kor Mereti faction during the Korath civil war. Here they built the factories and shipyards that churned out autonomous warships to prosecute their war against the Kor Sestor. The machines now rule this world alone, and have made it entirely uninhabitable for living creatures as they delve ever deeper into the planet's crust to harvest metal and fuel, and construct more and more factories to build new generations of robotic warships.
With no living creatures in sight, the only noises in this refueling depot are the roaring engines as robot ships land and take off, communicating silently with each other via radio. The autonomous ships land and take off with perfect precision in a steady, unbroken stream. Many of them have been damaged by weapons fire, and as soon as they land they are covered by a swarm of welding and repair microbots that lay down new layers of hull armor and rebuild weapons and engines that have been destroyed.
The planet of Sardva is used by the Bunrodea as a vault for genetic material of all origins, from the seeds of plants that the Bunrodea have encountered to the genetic material of animals and even past generations of Bunrodeans. This material is stored in many of the planet's cave systems, which, with some slight modification, have amazingly stable climates that are perfect for the long term storage of genetic libraries.
	The decentralized and redundant nature of the vaults also ensures that if anything happens on one part of the planet that may compromise the vaults there, locations elsewhere on the planet will still keep the material safe.
Sardva has no single major spaceport, with each vault location supporting its own small spaceport for receiving shipments and refueling the freighters. You eventually find a vault that is willing to let you land so that you may refuel, but they don't seem too happy about your presence, and seem like they're only refueling you so that you stop asking every vault you come across.
This planet's atmosphere has dangerously high radiation levels. On several of the continents there are patches, each nearly a hundred kilometers across, where the soil has been melted into glass by a nuclear explosion. Outside these blasted regions the plant life still flourishes, but the only land animals left alive are insects.
	In the oceans, bizarre and corrupted creatures frolic.
The homeworld of the Saryds still bears some scars from the adolescence of their species, particularly in its lack of biodiversity. But over thousands of years, they have returned significant portions of the planet to their original wilderness state. The planet's population currently stands at just over two billion, in part due to the fact that Saryds live very long lives and many of them choose to dedicate their lives to serving society in other ways rather than raising children.
The main spaceport is on the outskirts of a large city near the planet's equator, supposedly not far from the place where the Saryds launched their first rockets to explore their own solar system. It has all the standard accoutrements of a tourist trap, including stall after stall of vendors selling food or articles of clothing, and mobs of wide-eyed visitors wandering about and generally getting in the way of the merchant captains trying to conduct actual business here.
This was probably a habitable world at one point. It is no longer. Nothing lives or grows here, and the atmosphere is full of toxic chemicals.
This is one of the primary war platforms for the Kor Sestor. Some sections of the station are much newer than others, and the scars are still visible in places where weapons fire has annihilated part of the station. The robots have rebuilt the damaged parts in a seemingly random pattern, like burls of bark growing over damaged parts of a tree.
There is no atmosphere inside this station, and indeed it is unlikely the station could hold air even if it were ever recaptured by living beings. In places, the stars shine through small cracks in the hull.
From above this ocean world looks like a frozen wasteland, but a wide variety of uncanny creatures inhabit the rift valleys and hydrothermal vents deep underwater. The Kimek operate a small research station on the surface, because this is one of the few worlds in Coalition territory where there are still new species left undiscovered, kilometers below the frozen surface. Above ground, only a few species of birds and insects are able to survive.
The spaceport station is a cylindrical tower rising above the snowdrifts, anchored to the volcanic rock of one of the few islands that protrudes above the ice sheets near the equator. Near the station a hole about ten meters in diameter has been bored through the ice to allow submersible research craft access to the ocean depths.
	There are relatively few permanent inhabitants here; most of the people in the spaceport are just crews stopping over to refuel while coming to or from the Heliarch ringworlds.
Second Rose is a warm planet, but a bit too rainy for Kimek preferences. That, plus its relatively remote location, means that its population is low despite its fertile fields and fisheries: most Kimek prefer to live somewhere closer to their inner core of bustling metropolitan worlds.
	The planet's crust is rich in metal, and in some areas mine shafts have been sunk two or three kilometers below the surface to tap the richest seams.
A surprising number of Saryds and Arachi are wandering through this spaceport, conversing with the locals and sampling the food that is served here while they wait either for transport off-world or for local flights to other parts of the planet's surface. Apparently this is something of a tourist destination.
More than ten billion Kimek live here, most of them living in one of several arcologies near the equator: massive structures that reach nearly a kilometer tall and may house over half a billion individuals. As a result, despite the large population most of the land is either undeveloped or used for farming.
	The Kimek arcologies are said to be able to recycle more than 99% of the waste produced in them each day, which is what makes it feasible for so many Kimek to live in such close proximity.
The spaceport facility is a kilometer-tall pyramid honeycombed with tunnels wide enough for a pair of bulk freighters to pass each other with plenty of room to spare. There is no single central warehouse district or meeting area. Instead, each cluster of docking bays is surrounded by its own storage facilities, food courts, and concourses.
Grass and trees are scarce on this perpetually cold and foggy planet. The dominant form of vegetation is a mixture of mosses and lichens which can grow into mats more than half a meter thick. Vast herds of hoofed animals wander across the planet's surface, unable to stay in one place for long because the moss that they eat can take decades to grow back.
	The hardy plants that grow here are useful for producing a wide range of medical compounds.
The spaceport city has a ring of searchlights perpetually pointed skyward to direct ships in to a landing in the fog in case their other instruments malfunction. Entire sectors of the city are off limits to non-Saryd visitors, and presumably are home to the secret research labs where advanced medicines and other technologies are being developed.
A hideously powerful weapon tore open scars on this planet's surface so deep that pools of magma bled out through them. Presumably these wounds were inflicted on the planet by yet another Korath super-weapon devised in the final years of their civil war. A few ruined cities remain, some of which were sliced in two by the trail of weapon fire.
This station's hull is pockmarked by weapons fire and torn open by larger explosions. Only one section remains that still contains atmosphere. Inside are the corpses of a few dozen Korath, mummified by exposure to the dry and antiseptic air of the station. It's not a pretty sight.
	Before the war put an end to it, this appears to have been a refinery, processing ore harvested from the system's unusually dense population of metallic asteroids.
The most disturbing thing about the empty Korath cities on this planet is how pristine they are: no sign of bombing or of weapons fire. Either everyone who lived here chose to leave, or they were killed by a weapon that did no damage to the buildings they live in.
	Outside the cities, plant and animal life has begun to flourish, and some of the smaller villages have already been swallowed up by the growing forests. The climate is temperate, and rainfall is plentiful; aside from the reduction in biodiversity, it will not take this planet long to forget its former owners.
This massive station, despite its age, does not appear to have any visible damage: everything inside it is perfectly in order, and no section shows signs of weapon fire on it. If it wasn't for the absence of its inhabitants and the complete lack of atmosphere, it would probably be identical to when it was first constructed.
This station manufactures the weapon systems and other equipment that is used in the Korath stations, war vessels, and world-ships.
From the outside this station appears as run-down as their other facilities, but the interior is meticulously clean. Also, everything outside the delivery bay is restricted space, under heavy military guard.
This system has a high concentration of metallic asteroids, which the Korath are harvesting to provide iron ore for their space ships and fissionable materials for their reactor cores. Smelting metal in a high-temperature blast furnace in the interior of a space station is, of course, an incredibly risky proposition.
Despite your lack of knowledge of Korath health and anatomy, it is clear that the inhabitants of this station are under-fed and overworked. Also, an alarming number of them are missing fingers, hands, or entire limbs. It is quite possible that the work in the refineries is even more dangerous than the job of the raiders attacking human space.
Seraglio's vast ice fields hint at a variety of mysteries, most notably the chasms that suggest the planet was somehow subjected to massive compressive forces at some point in its recent geological history.
At present, Seraglio is the focus of considerable attention from researchers searching for clues as to the planet's history.
Serpens is a sparsely populated world of ancient canyonlands and barren deserts. There were no permanent settlements here until a century ago when visiting biologists discovered an indigenous snake whose venom is useful as a painkiller and heart medication. That led to a few small laboratories being set up in the desert, and to the eventual discovery of other useful compounds that can be extracted from the local flora and fauna.
The spaceport's landing pads are just a set of flat cleared areas on top of a mesa, surrounding a jumble of small adobe buildings.
	Inside the spaceport, scientists in lab coats rub shoulders with "snake wranglers" who ride in and out on horseback, dressed in denim and wearing oversized straw hats. The whole place smells of antiseptic and manure.
The clouds of Servian swirl in deceptive calmness around the outer limits of the planet, where automated scoop probes don't have any trouble gathering gasses and various exotic elements. Underneath the peaceful exterior, the norm is extreme turbulence and violent storms with lightning thousands of times more powerful than anything observed on nearby planets.
	While the Remnant initially sought to discover what was below the storms, they finally ceased their attempts after a lengthy exploration program involving twenty successive probes and three early puffins. Every ship was destroyed before reaching the depths of the planet, but it nonetheless proved a valuable testing ground for their early ship hulls and helped to refine the technology.
This is a Korath mining station, where ore extracted from asteroids is refined and processed. The Korath seem to have an aversion to harvesting raw materials from actual planets, preferring to work with lifeless asteroids instead.
A smelter is never a safe place to work, and some of the machinery looks very old, but you get the feeling that the Korath on this station are in relatively good spirits nonetheless. The cafe in the spaceport is bustling, and every few hours a bell rings and about a third of the workers leave the factory floor and are replaced by fresh and rested ones.
This dry, hot world is home to almost no native life, but is ideal for the Korath automata because of its abundant solar energy. In the places where the Korath cities once were, the Kor Sestor have built massive factories with buildings sometimes close to a kilometer in height. In other places the land remains undeveloped, but the factories are constantly expanding outward.
In place of streets, massive tunnels and shafts run through the factory cities, wide enough for two capital ships to pass each other traveling in opposite directions without the risk of collision. The tunnels branch out into smaller and smaller passageways like capillaries branching out from an artery.
There are several large Korath cities on this planet, but the ones farther from the equator have been covered by encroaching glaciers as the planet slowly enters a new ice age. A small number of crops are still grown in the open air, but many of the fields have now been covered with row upon row of gleaming glass as the Korath resort to greenhouse farming to lengthen the growing season and feed their remaining population more efficiently. Farther from the city, Korath ranchers tend herds of creatures that resemble giant, six-legged yaks.
This spaceport is the only place where you have ever encountered the Korath cooking food that actually smells appetizing. But in other places, the stench of the enormous cattle that they are trading more than makes up for it. Occasionally as you walk by the stalls, one of the cattle will lower its head to sniff at you. They seem docile enough, although perhaps a bit undernourished, but their horns are alarming.
Saryds are particularly drawn to forested environments, and as a result this world has become heavily populated. Rather than gathering in tightly packed cities with skyscrapers and busy roads, they have spread out evenly across the whole land area in a sort of endless suburban sprawl. But enough patches of forest have been maintained between the roads and housing compounds that from orbit, at a first glance, the planet looks pristine and uninhabited.
The spaceport is built at the base of a mountain. At the peak of the mountain is the Starlit University, one of the premier Saryd institutions of higher learning, elevated above the ordinary world of the forest below so that the students can remain detached and focused on their education.
	Given the number of boisterous young Saryds who are galloping about the spaceport at an undignified pace, some of whom are stumbling and showing other signs of inebriation, it is possible that the University's attempts to keep the youth secluded in an ivory tower of learning are not entirely successful.
A dizzying variety of bizarre and stunted life forms have evolved on Shadowed Valley, each with different means of coping with the high levels of sulfuric acid in the planet's atmosphere and rainwater. In the mountains where cliffs and rocks are exposed to the acid rain, they have been sculpted into smooth, flowing contours etched with lines and wrinkles. But the Saryds prize this planet primarily for the beauty of its gypsum caves, full of delicate crystalline deposits, towering speleothems, and deep, clear pools of poisonous water.
The spaceport here is built almost entirely underground, and populated mostly by research scientists; very few Saryds have chosen to call this planet home, although it does draw the occasional adventurous tourist. In a few large caverns they have installed sun lamps and planted groves of trees to make up for the relative lack of vegetation on the surface.
	The atmosphere outside the port is breathable, but not terribly pleasant.
Named after a mythical paradise, Shangri-La is an almost ideal planet, with a mixture of advanced, developed cities and uninhabited mountains. It is a rich and prosperous world, and nearly self-sufficient, but the cost of living here is prohibitively high for anyone from off-world. Because Polaris is on the very fringe of human space, and because of the wealth of its economy, piracy is a constant threat. Although recently the Syndicate has provided good protection, in past centuries it was not unheard of for raiding parties of starships to attack major port cities here, carrying off valuable cargo and sometimes also human slaves.
The spaceport is state-of-the-art. So are the laser turrets and missile silos spaced out along its periphery. But somehow, instead of making you feel more secure, the defenses only serve to remind you of how far on the fringes of civilization you are, and of how rich this planet is compared to some of its neighbors. Everyone walking through the port is moving at a brisk, purposeful pace; loitering and sightseeing are not encouraged here.
This world is dry, but not particularly hot. The settlements are small and scattered, because each oasis only provides enough water for a few thousand individuals. Some of them focus on manufacturing, while others are attempting to farm the desert with drought-resistant crops. But the largest industry is retirement housing: the cool, dry climate and slow, quiet pace of life here are exactly what elderly Saryds find most comfortable.
The spaceport village is built around a large oasis, a sandy-bottomed lake with startlingly blue water. The landing pads are in the desert half a kilometer out from the village, separated from the houses by windbreaks and noise barriers to avoid disrupting the tranquil atmosphere. On balconies overlooking the lake, Saryds with graying hair walk or stand around in small groups enjoying quiet conversation with each other.
Shiver is a dead and frozen world. The only settlement is a small refueling station that services cargo fleets on their way to Earth. Precipitation is rare here, but sometimes the wind whips up snow and ice from the surface into something akin to a desert sandstorm, and even on days when the wind dies down the air sparkles with tiny, floating ice crystals.
	Most people who come here for work only stay for a few months or half a year, just long enough for the sense of adventure to die away.
The spaceport is protected from the wind and blowing snow by a perimeter wall about fifty meters tall. Aside from running the fueling station, one of the few jobs for the workers here is to operate the bulldozers that push away the snowdrifts and keep the station from being buried beneath them. Although the air is breathable, ships that land here connect directly to docking tubes, to protect their crews from the icy air.
	There are no children here, and almost no women. Most of the workers are men in their early twenties. No one makes an effort to greet you.
Shorebreak is an ocean world which is home to a stunning profusion of alien life, some of which is not too dissimilar from life on Earth. The first settlement, centuries ago, was built as a marine biology laboratory, and from there the planet gradually grew into a regional center for bioengineering, where local life forms are tested for possible use in human medicine.
	Outside the laboratories, much of the planet's land mass remains in its natural state, but the planet is currently struggling with a large increase in immigration.
The spaceport on Shorebreak is built on its own separate island, perhaps as a way to keep any contamination isolated from the main continents. The hangar where you were directed to land your ship was hermetically sealed before you were allowed to land, and the customs officer informs you that any cargo you wish to trade must first be screened for "rats, mice, invasive insects, or wild pigs."
Shroud is a world of castles in the clouds and slums in the valleys below. High on the mountain peaks, above the clouds, the planet's few elites live in splendid mansions. Below them, the people work mostly in textiles: farming cotton, raising sheep, working at looms and sewing machines in dimly lit factories.
	The level of intrigue and dalliance between the bored gentry could easily compete with the most lurid and unrealistic of Victorian fiction.
The spaceport here is a shopping mall. You landed on a plain concrete slab near the "cargo entrance," where raw goods are bought and sold. But the other end of the building holds hangars for luxury ships and glass-windowed storefronts where mannequins are dressed in outlandish and horribly impractical outfits. There is a sparse cafeteria for dock workers near your entrance, and fancy steakhouses and seafood places for the more wealthy visitors.
The gravitational pull of the nearby gas giant resulted in the large, bulky, mountainous surface of this planet. Tectonic shifts are very common, and the surface is marked with the wear and tear of massive tremors. Beneath the cracks, however, lies a rich source of materials that the Vi quickly capitalized on for their nearby worlds.
The spaceport is haphazardly built into the side of a smaller mountain, and every now and then you can feel a very faint rumbling from below. You're not sure if it is beneath you or somewhere off in the distance. Construction work around the spaceport is ongoing, but it is more likely because the Vi are busy finding new places to mine for materials rather than making improvements to the spaceport itself.
Sies Upi is one of the most recently colonized planets of the Gegno Vi. This hot, dry world with harsh living environments serves as more of an outpost than it does a colony, but nevertheless the Vi found ways to create manageable living conditions.
This spaceport seems a lot more militarized than other Gegno planet spaceports, full of geared up Vi with their ships parked close by. The roar of an enormous cruiser's engines can be heard just as often as the shutting down of another. There doesn't look to be very many non-military personnel here, and it feels somewhat claustrophobic with all of the guards standing around.
First built by the Heliarchs mere centuries after their victory over the Quarg, this station serves as both a control point for the automated strip mines on the planet below and a smeltery to process all the raw materials brought up into the finest alloy platings. First used to produce many of the components of the two other stations in the system, the Silo now serves as a factory for spare ship parts in order to aid the local dry dock's repair functionalities when required. Within restricted sections under constant Heliarch patrol, the station features a few massive, warehouse-like rooms, where the surplus platings are stored.
In its early days, the Silo boasted among the highest activity as compared to most other stations of its size, with merchant and military ships alike aiding in the construction process of its younger sibling stations. Over thousands of years, many of the areas dedicated to living grounds and trade centers were moved out to more accessible locations across the Coalition, swapped out in favor of storage dumps to support the increasing demand for alloy plating.
Eons ago, Silver was a lush tropical world. It is now mostly desert, but large oil deposits remain below the surface. The petrochemicals mined here are refined to produce plastics, fuel for terrestrial vehicles, and some components of medical ointments and antibiotics.
	The deserts are hot in daylight and surprisingly cool at night, and as a result most settlers live in houses sunk into the ground in regions where there is enough plant cover to keep the dunes from shifting in the wind and slowly burying their dwellings.
The spaceport is near an oasis. Cactus-like plants and a few palm trees stand as tall as radio towers, on the outskirts. The landing pads are made of concrete, rising several meters above the ground to protect both against the encroaching sand and against the flash floods that come in the rare times when it rains here.
	Under the clear sky and with white sand in all directions, the sunlight is painfully bright, and you have been warned to avoid prolonged exposure to it.
Sinter is a world where life never developed; the atmosphere is unbreathable, but warm enough and dense enough that people can survive here in pressurized homes or outside when wearing oxygen tanks. The only industry here is mining, which is mostly done with remotely controlled robots, so the population of the entire planet is only a few thousand people.
The spaceport is built next to a large smelter where ore is processed into metal ingots. Even on a planet as inhospitable as this one, the cost of extracting metal from ore is still cheaper than the cost of shipping the ore off-world for processing. A long enclosed terminal building extends out from the smelter, with docking tubes and landing pads every few hundred meters for connecting to visiting ships. Small robotic trolleys carry cargo crates back and forth; only a handful of people are walking around here, and most of them are probably off-worlders.
An Earth-like planet, Siteria is notable for the large number of settlements on it: every few kilometers there are remains of sizable villages, some of which still haven't been completely covered by vegetation even today. A few cities even have tall buildings still partially held together, a testament to how durable the constructions of the planet's original inhabitants were.
Skillet is a sparsely populated planet whose red hills and canyonlands are strip mined for placer deposits of iron ore and precious metals, mostly to supply the needs of the shipyards in Betelgeuse. This world is also used for ranching, and even for growing corn in a few less arid regions. The weather is usually quite mild, although hot and dry; the only reasons so few people have settled here are because it is so remote, and because the mining and farming industries need far fewer human workers than machines.
The spaceport mostly consists of a row of adobe warehouses, with tin roofs polished to mirror brightness to reflect the heat of the sun. Around the warehouses is a ring of concrete landing pads. Forklift trucks carrying pallets of iron and steel ingots weave their way in between men and women on horseback and others on foot. The air is hot, but too dry to feel oppressive.
Due to the low gravity here, some of the alien crops planted by the Hai grow to heights of five meters or more. The air is too thin for humans or Hai to breathe without carrying supplemental oxygen tanks, so the population is very small.
	The fields are tended by enormous spider-like robots which are equipped not only for irrigation and harvesting, but also for pollination, since the thin atmosphere has made it impossible for native insects to evolve here.
The spaceport is a small city built under a pressurized glass dome, with a ring of hangars and landing pads around its periphery.
	As with most Hai architecture, the dome and the buildings within it are simple and sparsely decorated, but as you walk through the city everything feels very solid, and ancient. Everything is metal, even the roads and walkways, and the center of many of the roads dips down slightly due to millennia of foot traffic slowly wearing down the metal.
The "dragons" of Skymoot are an immensely popular tourist attraction, unlike their mythical namesakes only in their lack of ability to breathe fire. The presence of such an efficient apex predator has spurred the evolution of a stunning variety of defense mechanisms in its prey, as well; whether in the air or in the plains or deep in the forest, Skymoot is a dangerous place to visit.
	The scientific consensus is that the "dragons" are clever animals, but not sentient. Those who insist on trying to find ways to communicate with them almost invariably end up getting eaten.
The spaceport is unusually large and clean for a planet with such a low population. It is clear that tourism here is a profitable industry. One large booth offers airplane rides to view the "dragons" up close, for anyone willing to sign a waiver; even with energy shields, it is not unheard of for a plane to be snatched out of midair by one of the creatures. Other booths offer safari tours of the forest; the tourists in line at those booths are carrying a wide variety of knives and guns.
Far beneath the swirling blue surface of Slylandro's atmosphere, void sprites and other strange creatures float about. As improbable as it may seem, the void sprites must have somehow evolved the capability to manipulate gravity fields, because every once in a while one of them will rise up from the surface powered by an antigravity field similar to the landing repulsors used by human ships. When they do so, the decrease in atmospheric pressure causes them to nearly double in size.
Smuggler's Den was formerly known as Grendel Station, back when it was an operating refinery. But, it has since been taken over by pirates, who turned it into a haven for all manner of smugglers and privateers. As a hub of pirate activity, Smuggler's Den has access to fenced goods from beyond the region, resulting in repair shops that can make a variety of legal and illegal modifications to your ship. This confluence also provides the opportunity to buy refurbished starships... if it does not trouble your conscience to think about the likely fates of their previous owners. Rumor has it that pilots with the right connections may be able to purchase heavily modified ships here.
It is a strange but indisputable fact that pirates smell worse than ordinary human beings. In this day and age, where even the cheapest shuttlecraft at least has a sonic shower, there is no logical explanation for it, except that anarchist tendencies must somehow go hand in hand with a tendency to reject society's norms around hygiene. Here in a space station, with nothing but recycled air to breathe, the effect is overpowering.
Snowfeather is a world with unusually chaotic weather patterns, where snow can fall even in the middle of summer but will melt away within days when the temperature shifts and becomes warmer again. Surprisingly, it is a popular vacation spot for the Hai, who find the unpredictability and occasional violence of the weather here to be invigorating.
The core of the spaceport is two rows of hangars, back to back. Their thick metal roofs slope backwards, away from the entrance to each hangar, so that any snow or ice that slides off the roofs will not fall across the opening while ships or people are passing through. The hangars are also elevated about six meters above the ground, to protect against flash floods.
Solace is a fertile world that was already home to Earth-like vegetation and animals even before the first settlers arrived. It has now been inhabited for nearly half a millennium, and sprawling cities cover much of its surface.
	In addition to being one of the major metropolitan centers of the galactic South, Solace is best known as the home of Delta V Corporation, makers of plasma engines and rockets of various sorts.
Solace's spaceport is located in a satellite town of one of its major cities. Surrounding the spaceport is an extensive industrial park that stretches out for some distance, until the warehouses and factories abruptly give way to valleys and farmlands.
	The spaceport serves not only for incoming and outgoing commerce, but also as a testing ground for the next generation of Delta V technology. On your way around the port you stop to watch some tests of engines so powerful that the ground shakes beneath them.
	At the heart of the spaceport are a few bars, plus restaurants representing nearly every style of cuisine that you are familiar with. All the buildings are well maintained; this strikes you as a quite prosperous world, for this section of the galaxy.
The Korath were endlessly creative in devising new weapons of war during the twilight years of their empire, but what destroyed this planet in the end was not a military disaster but an ecological one. Small villages along the ocean shores and rusting fleets of boats bear witness to the fact that this ocean world was once a fruitful fishery. But now the ocean carries high levels of industrial toxins, and in place of large fish only small invertebrates remain.
This is a cold and mountainous world, and most of its oceans are covered in ice. A handful of giant craters gouged out from the sides of mountains are the only sign that there were once Korath settlements here. But, the Kor Sestor robots have begun building settlements of their own, in caverns deep under the mountains where they are safe from orbital bombardment. Where recent Kor Mereti attacks have collapsed one of the access tunnels, swarms of robots have gathered to dig them out like ants when their hill has been stepped on.
The caverns of the Kor Sestor are hidden deep under the mountains, but there are also a handful of refueling stations on the surface. Each one is guarded by towering weapon platforms and swarms of autonomous fighter drones.
Sopoyra is a major manufacturing planet, as well as the chokepoint between the Megasa systems of the north and the Erabu systems of the south. Given that royal permission is required to enter the Erabu region, this world also acts as the focal point for trade between the two regions. Goods are dropped off from other Megasa worlds, then transported to the Erabu worlds by freighters with royal permission.
Sopoyra is not a very hospitable world. There are few settlements outside of the main spaceport, which is almost entirely dedicated to factories and warehouses.
	There are freighters that will come from the north to drop off goods here, only for them to be immediately picked up by another freighter that brings the goods down south. It seems somewhat inefficient to do things this way, but must be done to be in keeping with royal decrees.
This is a relatively dry planet, and the only Korath cities were close to the poles where the temperatures are more mild and the lifeless deserts give way to grasslands and even a few scattered forests. The largest city was clearly destroyed by orbital bombardment. The other cities seem to have been done in by rioting or looting, leaving smashed windows and burned-out buildings behind. Some of the damage is very recent; the Korath survivors here held out for a long time.
Splashdown is an aging world where plate tectonics have long since died down and the weather has worn the surface down into lowlands, marshes, and shallow seas. Most of the land area is not suitable for growing anything but rice, and only a few settlements have been built here.
	Visitors tend to find this world boring, but the locals say they find beauty in the big sky and the subtle colors of the grasslands.
The spaceport is in the "highlands," a wide plateau only a few hundred meters above sea level. In all directions, the horizon is an almost perfectly flat line, varied only slightly by low hills and copses of trees.
	The port itself consists of some grain silos and warehouses, an open air marketplace, and a barbecue restaurant with outdoor seating. The buildings are all single-story, wood-framed construction.
The silence of this station rings in your ears, and as you explore you are increasingly surprised that it even has an atmosphere. It is obviously ancient, and patches of ambiguous green and purple material resembling fungus grow through the walls. Whoever built this station designed it for beings much larger than you. Either that, or they liked spacious environments. Even the shortest doorway you pass through is easily double your height. They are always wider than they are tall.
Exploring beyond the docks reveals that most of this facility is infrastructure for some type of massive emitter. It is not clear exactly what it's supposed to be emitting, but it might have something to do with how this system appeared in the first place.
Starcross is a stormy, ocean-dappled planet that was not settled until the planets farther out on this arm of the galaxy grew prosperous enough to create a need for a stop-over point for cargo. Structures must be built strong and on high enough ground to avoid the frequent floods.
	A few enterprising settlers have taken up farming of some native plants that are edible for humans, including one plant similar to cranberries that has come to be considered a rare delicacy by many.
The spaceport is rudimentary: just a couple of landing pads, each with thick concrete walls around it to protect your ship from being buffeted by any storms that strike. The central building is a squat, windowless concrete fortress.
	Inside, however, it is completely different: the ceilings are high, with sun-lamps that provide some sense of warmth and cheer, and native wood paneling or stucco on most of the walls to soften them.
Starting Rubin was far from being the first station constructed around the Kimek homeworld, but it is the oldest one to still be in orbit. It was built as an orbital equivalent to the hunger towers found on the planet it orbits, as a safety measure against the disasters that may affect Ki Patek Ka.
	Since the residents need little of the food produced, it quickly became the station's primary export, transforming it into one of the largest trading hubs of the region. It has also the largest population of any Coalition station, capable of supporting tens of thousands of Kimek.
Despite only having the population of a small city, the arrivals deck of Starting Rubin is as crowded as the largest spaceports. Civilian ships belonging to all three Coalition species can be seen arriving or departing every couple minutes. While there doesn't seem to be any military facility, there are some civilian shops on the station, although they sell nothing but few Kimek items.
Cian Station orbits a large gas giant, which simultaneously has compounds usable in hyperspace fuel and enough mass to pull an abnormally large numbers of asteroids near it. The local industry mostly centers around the metals harvested here, but part of it is still focused on refining deuterium. Its remote location prevents it from becoming a major port, but most traders that travel into this region stop here, even if just to refuel and to watch its impressive facilities. This is also the most recent Coalition station, although it's much older than any in human space.
Station Cian seems to act as a base for the military operations in this area; it even has a small Heliarch shipyard in a restricted section. Considering the isolationist planet Remote Blue is only one jump away, it's likely the station is also being used as an observational outpost, keeping an eye on the ships that travel that far.
Stonebreak is home to some of the largest cities in Hai space aside from their homeworld: massive planned communities built in concentric rings, where housing space and community buildings alternate with zones of factories and shipyards. This star system has an unusual number of metallic asteroids, which the Hai harvest for the raw materials for Stonebreak's industries.
From above, this city has almost perfect radial symmetry, a sure sign that it was planned and built as a single unit rather than expanding at random over time. Every single building in the city is made from the same metal alloy, a dull and slightly irregular gray color. The corners of each building are slightly beveled instead of meeting at right angles.
	Even the spaceport is symmetrical: a ring of hangars, facing outwards, at evenly spaced intervals, with warehouses and living quarters inside the ring.
A cold planet, with dense, foggy atmosphere. As with many pirate outposts, Stormhold is home to an unknown number of villages and hidden outposts, each controlled by a different pirate faction. It is also said that some of the most dangerous fugitives in the galaxy live deep in the forests of this planet, escaping detection by living underground or by avoiding the use of electronic devices.
The spaceport is a large town, with a population of roughly thirty thousand. People of all races and cultures mingle freely, while keeping a wary eye open for off-worlders who may be Republic agents in disguise.
The Stronghold of Flugbu was used as a military base during the War of Independence. Now it is a manufacturing world, specializing not in large machines but small, intricate components. It is also home to House Bebliss, the secretive guild that specializes in communication, translation, and encryption. House Bebliss is essential to the Coalition economy because they maintain the hyperspace communication network, but there are also rumors that they may have ties to the Resistance.
The spaceport here is a single massive compound, a relic of its military past, with hangars of all different sizes along its periphery and gun emplacements that may still be operational even though there has been little need for them in thousands of years. A fleet of Heliarch military ships is stationed here, as well, but their role is mostly ceremonial.
	The hallways of the compound are packed with members of all three Coalition species, most of whom walk quietly and purposefully without stopping to speak with each other.
Sundive is largely covered in tropical rainforests and savanna, but with enough open plains that it has also become a major agricultural world. For most of the year, the weather here is quite mild, but tornadoes and massive thunderstorms are not uncommon in the summer months.
	Sundive is also home to a large astronomical laboratory with radio telescopes and other devices for studying the galactic core and the massive black hole that resides there.
The spaceport is in a wide, open plain; most of the landing sites are just packed dirt. Surrounding it is nothing but farmland and forests; the laboratory and telescopes are far beyond the horizon, where incoming ships will not interfere with their operation.
	The buildings are short and made of wood; even the roofs are clapboard shingles rather than metal or rubber. Several farmers have brought in goods to sell; most of them came in trucks, but you also see a few horse-drawn wagons.
Most of this world is barren deserts and oceans; for whatever reason almost no life evolved here. The only human settlement is a small town in one of the few hilly regions, and the locals survive by ranching and farming. It is the sort of world that is ideal for people who enjoy being alone, because it has almost no appeal for anyone else. In addition to the oppressively hot weather, flash floods are quite frequent.
There are only two concrete landing platforms in the spaceport, and that is plenty for the amount of traffic they receive. A wide cleared-off field of dirt is available beyond that in case an unusual number of ships ever need to land. The two platforms and the spaceport buildings are all built near to the tops of the hills, out of the way of the flood waters. This is both the spaceport and the only town on Sundrinker. A single road winds between a few buildings; one seems to be a saloon, and another, a general store.
Sunracer is home of Megaparsec, Inc., a shipyard that specializes in designing fast, lightweight ships.
	It is a well-settled planet with a population of over a billion, and a diverse economy that includes farming and fishing in addition to the shipyards.
	Outside the cities, large regions of undeveloped land still remain. Hovercraft racing is a major local sport, and some massive and elaborate courses have been constructed in the wilderness.
On Sunracer, the spaceport and shipyard are one and the same. As you walk among the landing pads and hangars, it is not immediately clear which ships are visiting starships undergoing minor repairs, and which are new ones under construction.
	A series of enormous cranes tower over one section of landing pads. From them hang hull fragments, engines, and even a few small ships, each being swung from one location within the shipyard to another. Meanwhile, forklifts and flatbed trucks are weaving between the buildings in every direction.
Swiftsong Station is operated and maintained by the Imo Blep corporation as a giant convention center. Most Hai stations restrict access beyond the docking bay or the promenade to at least some degree, but Swiftsong is almost completely open.
	Tens of thousands of Hai pass through on an almost daily basis as the continual churn of summits, forums, conventions, symposiums, productions, conferences, weddings, festivals, and the like roll on in an endless cavalcade of life. With Icelake nearby and Hai-home just one jump away, this station is a major cultural hub that even houses the head office of one of the biggest music labels in Hai space.
The spaceport promenade runs around the interior of the station and is divided into the usual two levels, but has four additional ring levels rising up from the promenade into each of the station's main branches. Almost any business or service you could want can be found here - except for an outfitter or shipyard. Apparently there is simply no room, as the docking bay must take up nearly all the station's exterior space to accommodate its massive volume of daily traffic.
This world is home to House Garbarag, the Arachi guild of farmers and ranchers. On private ranches far from the cities, they experiment with raising new breeds of longcows, a unique species of cattle that grow a new body segment each year and can reach more than thirty meters in length. The meat from a single longcow can feed a village for a month.
	Longcows are typically docile and slow-moving, but when frightened one of them can do as much damage as an entire herd of stampeding terrestrial cattle.
The spaceport is next door to the city's meat-packing district, which is not any more pleasant or scenic than its equivalent on a human world would be. The actual slaughterhouses are some distance outside the city limits, placed there because in the early days of the colony a particularly large longcow in its death throes went on a rampage and destroyed several city blocks before it bled out and died.
This station is run-down and completely abandoned, emptied of atmosphere so that air pressure will not put ongoing stress on the station's structure. Each section is sealed off from the others by heavy blast doors, leaving most of the station inaccessible.
Ternituul is a dull world covered in a thick layer of fog hiding a dry desolate surface: an ideal world for the hardened Gegno Vi. A large portion of the Vi's military branch is based here, where new recruits are thrown into the first bottleneck of their lives. It is not uncommon for inhabitants to be lost to the bleak ecosystem of this planet.
	The fog also hides a more grim aspect of this world - numerous graveyards cover the terrain, serving as a final resting place for most Vi. Large ceremonies are constantly held for the fallen, though instead of grievance, the Vi celebrate the commitment and dignity of their fellow brethren.
Here, the spaceport is built very close to and partly in the ground, making it slightly dangerous for any craft trying to land here. Undeterred by the gloomy appearance of this graveyard world, the nearby Vi are occasionally chanting or lighting fires for the deceased, even while exiting their ships.
This cool, dry world is a sort of natural cleanroom, an ideal place for manufacturing sensitive equipment that could be harmed by the presence of condensation or mildew or pollen granules. The factory workers and overseers live in hive-like dormitories that each house tens of thousands of Kimek.
	Closer to the poles, the air is too cold to be comfortable for the Kimek, but a small community of Saryd engineers has established a factory compound where they produce their own equipment to sell to the Kimek.
This is a sparsely populated world by Kimek standards, with a population of slightly less than a billion, but by the standards of most other species the spaceport is still a crowded and chaotic metropolis, with constant streams of traffic both on the roads and on the pedestrian walkways and footbridges. It is somewhat disconcerting to be surrounded by a sea of giant beetles scurrying back and forth between the landing pads and the port buildings.
A visitor to this station will immediately notice that the gravity is lower than most planets by about a third. The reception area is lavish with several artworks and exotic plants. A well-groomed Hai receptionist informs you that, unless you have family at this respite facility, you will not be permitted to wander the station.
The spaceport is small but serviceable, featuring a luxuriously appointed Centipede parked in a berth, presumably for entertainment voyages. There is a small but fancy cafe, and a gift shop with gold watches, jewelry, wines, and other pricey trinkets. This place must provide aged care services for only the very wealthy.
Thrall has a warm, moderate climate and a geography of mostly gently rolling hills. Most of the industry here takes the form of agriculture, especially growing cotton, which mills in the three major cities process into textiles for export off-world.
This is one of the few places in the galaxy where cotton is picked by hand, because labor here is cheaper than the cost of buying and maintaining machinery. The locals are prevented from seeking more lucrative employment elsewhere partly by the crushingly low wages, which make the cost of space transport prohibitively high for most, and partly by the educational system, which is among the worst in the galaxy.
The spaceport consists of a vast asphalt-paved field for landing ships, and some wooden buildings a few stories tall. Most of the materials for export are stored in sheds or stacked under plastic tarps, with a few police officers clustered around them to make sure no ship picks up cargo that has not been paid for. Inside the buildings, two restaurants with different names serve an identical selection of fried foods.
Thshybothro is a small, mountainous world that is home to the Bunrodea's largest cybernetics research facilities. Various labs and factories are scattered within the world's many valleys, within which the Bunrodea work to develop new cybernetics, or improve their old ones.
	Although this planet is where new modifications are developed, the mass production and installation of cybernetics is typically done elsewhere.
The planet's spaceport is rather small, as typically any visitors to the planet travel directly to the research facilities that they're interested in. As such, the spaceport's primary focus is simply to refuel any ships that stop by the planet and who don't have authorization to land at one of the research facilities.
	The spaceport dock workers have more cybernetic modifications than you're used to from Bunrodeans elsewhere in their space. The worker who refuels your ship in particular is a mass of cybernetic "enhancements" ranging from powerful legs to aid in lifting crates to a vacuum cleaner attachment for dealing with spills and accidents.
Thule is a mountainous world with a population of nearly a billion, settled in the early days of space exploration. When the colony was first established, the Earth government did not yet have the strength to control any system but its own, and when the Republic was formed, Thule did not join, and has repulsed all efforts to force them to do so. It is well-known that the planet sponsors pirate fleets which bring it cheap materials to bolster its economy, but the planet is so far from the center of Republic space that fighting a war here would be prohibitively expensive, and so they remain unopposed.
The inhabitants of Thule are notoriously suspicious of strangers. They all seem to immediately recognize you as an off-worlder, perhaps by your clothing or your accent. The food sold in the shops is like nothing you have seen elsewhere, and the natives' accents are so strong that they almost seem to be speaking a different language. You feel as if you are visiting an alien world; centuries of separation has created a culture here that is very different from your own.
When the first colonists landed, they thought that they had found a dream world on Thunder: perfect gravity, perfect temperature, perfect atmosphere. Unfortunately, they soon discovered that the planet has unusually high tectonic activity, enough that building anything higher than two stories is almost impossible. Because of the earthquakes, attracting settlers has always been difficult for Thunder, and right now the population is only a few million.
The spaceport's landing pads are all solid slabs of metal; poured concrete would be far too prone to cracking. The spaceport village itself is a sprawling collection of squat, sturdy buildings, and a sign near the entrance to the cargo warehouse reads, "Do not stack crates."
Tibernia is a classic ice planet, but unlike most, it is nearly a perfect sphere with a remarkably smooth surface blemished by few craters. Many have speculated that it is artificial, but so far no one has found conclusive evidence of this.
This world is uncomfortably hot, even for the Wanderers, and so close to its star that the surface is bathed in dangerous levels of ultraviolet light. The few Wanderer installations here are buried underground, with only a few access hatches and storage buildings on the surface.
Most of the spaceport facility is closed to non-Wanderer personnel, and apparently to many of the off-world Wanderers who are visiting, as well. The underground passageways are comfortably wide and tall for a human, but the wanderers walking through them must tuck their wings in close to their bodies to avoid scraping against the ceilings.
	The warning signs marking restricted areas are in the undecipherable Wanderer language, but accompanied by a symbol you easily recognize: a DNA double helix undergoing replication.
Tinker is a highly industrialized world, exporting electronics both to the Syndicate and to Earth. The electronic goods manufactured here span the gamut from wires and capacitors to sophisticated microchips, and because many of the jobs here require skilled labor, it is a relatively prosperous planet.
	Outside the cities, large areas of this world have been set aside for mining and for refineries and smelters, ensuring that the industries here have all the raw materials they need, plus extra to sell.
The spaceport is nearly five hundred years old. As with many ports from that era, it is constructed as a single large complex, a towering building with hangar bay openings on all levels and a dedicated crew of flight controllers directing incoming starships in order to avoid collisions. Around the spaceport a city has developed.
Much like Aksaray, Topkapi is an old moon formed from the smashed remains of countless eons worth of stellar debris. The surface appears to be regularly bombarded by asteroids, although some of the craters show signs of being the site of rather large explosions. Your sensors pick up traces of materials most commonly found in Korath ships.
	Topkapi does not appear to have any routine activity, although satellites in orbit indicate that the Remnant monitor it for activity and send ships to investigate asteroid or other impacts on a regular basis.
In a region of the galaxy not known for beach resorts, Trinket has become somewhat of a major tourist destination. It is not a particularly warm world, and near both poles icebergs float year round, but at the equator the weather is almost tropical and the water is warm enough for swimming.
	Occasionally one of the ocean currents will pick up an iceberg and carry it all the way down past the resorts before it melts completely. Taking a boat out to these icebergs is a popular daytime activity here.
The spaceport is a long, two-story building of wood and stone with hundreds of stalls selling fruit and clothing and bad artwork.
	Many of the starships parked here have scorch marks and dents on their hulls, a sure sign of recent battle. It is likely that some of the people walking through the port are in fact pirates, posing as civilians in order to sell stolen cargo or to take a vacation incognito.
Triton Station serves both as a refinery for hyperspace fuel, and as a garrison for ships of the Republic Navy. Patrol ships are constantly landing here and then taking off to scour the surrounding systems for pirates. Since pirates are scarce in this part of space, it seems like a very tedious job.
The mess hall is empty except for one table where some Navy officers are playing a card game. They are sitting right under a ventilation duct, and the cards keep blowing off the table; the station's low simulated gravity is not enough to hold them there.
Trove is a tiny world, too small to have a breathable atmosphere. It is home to an experimental "jack mining" operation that has split its surface open in order to gain access to the metal-rich core.
	Most of the work here is done by machines, but a few people live inside an airtight complex in order to supervise the work and to sell ore and metal to visiting ships.
Within the mining complex, you find a small cafeteria with an uninspiring menu, and windows overlooking offices where dozens of people are staring at flickering video screens. Because of the low gravity, everyone moves languidly, as if in a dream. It is nearly silent.
This world, like others the Quarg live on, has noticeably lower gravity than humans are accustomed to. Several medium-sized extravagant villages are found nested deep within an oddly shaped glass structure, and it is a beautiful sight to behold. Many different, smaller biomes also contain wondrous flora and fauna that don't seem to be native to this particular moon. Despite all of this, structures were not built in accustom to visitors such as the nearby aliens, who find it hard navigating through the narrow hallways.
Most of the spaceport is automated Quarg robotics that do not provide any interaction with you besides basic spaceport tasks such as refueling. Occasionally, one of these robots, visually similar to the Quarg themselves, guide you throughout the visitable zones of the port. Otherwise, your presence here is mostly overlooked.
This massive station is the only orbital structure that can be found in Gegno space, and is still under heavy construction. Although a majority of the exterior seems complete, the interior is noticeably lacking in comparison, and it seems that the progress has slowed down significantly in recent times. A large portion of the station is filled with crew quarters and living sections, all larger than in human space, and the outside is enveloped in many docking bays of numerous sizes.
Gegno of all kinds are walking to and fro, though they seem very tired and overworked. Not a lot of them seem happy with their current working conditions, but all you can do is watch from a distance in a small half-built area nearby your ship's designated docking bay. Despite the scale and number of onboard facilities that you can see, there are only a small number of Gegno making use of them.
Millions of years ago, this was a warm world, perhaps even tropical. But some cataclysmic event, perhaps a meteor strike or a massive volcanic eruption, altered the planet's atmosphere enough to turn it into the nearly lifeless, frozen planet it is today.
	The first settlers came here to drill for the oil trapped deep under the surface, a relic of Tundra's former, more lively days. Instead of refining the oil into plastic, which sells relatively cheap in this region, they have developed an industry in synthetic fabrics and clothing.
The spaceport village consists of several large domes which keep out the wind and driving snow. Ships enter and exit the largest of the domes through a hatch that closes as soon as they have come through.
	Every decade or so, enough snow piles up on top of one of the domes that it is in danger of collapsing under its own weight; the locals simply move out of that dome and build another one higher up on the snowpack.
The offshore kelp farms on Turquoise Four produce not only nutritional food, but also an ultra-strong fiber that is used for creating durable textiles. Farther from shore, the Kimek operate fish farms as well. Viewed from above, the ocean surface is divided into patches of deep blue or green or rusty brown depending on what sort of product is being farmed in each patch.
The boats docked in this spaceport city are more numerous than the space ships, and some of them are considerably larger, as well. Almost half of the city is built on piers that extend out into the harbor with broad canals between them, but the largest and fanciest dwellings are on land, built along a ridge of hills that overlook the ocean. The air is full of the cries of gulls and the smell of fish and salt and drying seaweed.
The only settlement on this small world is Twinstar Depot, a village created mostly just to service the spaceport, where food and equipment from the southern galactic arm is stored and sent out in all directions to supply the rest of human space.
	The gravity is far less than ideal for human development, but the atmosphere is breathable and some tourists come to the planet just for the experience of being able to run and jump in low gravity without the need for a suit or oxygen tanks.
The depot consists mostly of large storage racks, with automatic lifts constantly clanking up and down. Very few people are in sight, aside from a small cafe near the center of the port. It is not a hospitable place.
Typhon Station is one of the major fuel refining stations in the galactic Rim. It is privately owned by Southbound Shipyards, and all the fuel produced here is shipped directly to them rather than being made available to visiting ships.
Vail is an entire world that is maintained as a ski resort for rich clients from the nearby planets. A combination of terraforming and snow making ensures that whichever hemisphere is in winter always has ideal skiing conditions, while farming and other small industries supply the tourists and the large staffs that cater to them.
	The slopes here include tracks for all the latest dangerous and expensive extreme winter sports, like hoverboarding and wingsuit cliff skiing.
The spaceport is near the equator, where the weather will be most amenable for landing starships. In addition to vertical take-off pads, the port has airplane shuttle runways and high speed rail lines to move people and cargo from here to their ultimate destinations in the resort towns.
	Consequently, the air is full of a confusing mixture of deep space ships and atmospheric vehicles. In order to come anywhere near the port, you are required to surrender control of your ship to the port's autopilot computer; there is no other way that collisions could be avoided.
Valhalla was the first world to be settled in this region of space, which is known as the Deep. It is rich in natural resources, but all its vast farms and fisheries are insufficient to feed its population of over five billion.
	The shipyards of Lionheart Industries are located here. Centuries ago, warships built here turned the tide of the Alpha War, and today the ships designed and built in the Deep continue to be some of the most technologically advanced ships in human space - and the most expensive.
Surrounding the spaceport is a metropolis of skyscrapers and factories that spreads all the way to the horizon in every direction.
	The spaceport itself is an imposing building, composed of three towers rising over a hundred stories into the air and connected at various levels by bridges. The docking bays are on the higher levels, with warehouse space lower down and loading platforms for trucks at ground level. Massive cargo elevators run up and down in the center of each building, and the hallways are all wide enough to allow small robotic carts and forklifts in addition to foot traffic.
From afar, this looks like a habitable planet, comfortably located on the near end of the goldilocks zone of its star. It has a high concentration of water vapor in its atmosphere and hosts primitive life, with mosses covering nearly all moist surfaces and exotic crustacean-like animals roaming the land, their carapaces made of what would be considered synthetic plastic elsewhere.
However, there is an unusually high concentration of toxic chlorine in the lower atmosphere. Without special equipment, one can only stay on the mountains to avoid the dense gas, and even then, only for a few hours before problems arise. Most traces of attempted colonization by the Sheragi have eroded away by now, leaving only broken buildings and decaying bones.
This rocky world is covered with vast ranges of desert. While some places have plateaus of rugged rock formations, others have articulate valleys of sand. When it comes to less distinct locations, it is hard to tell at first glance whether or not they are simply a formation of rocks resting on a deep layer of sand, or a thin layer of sand resting on a great foundation of rock. In addition, common dust storms constantly reshape the terrain, and together with the harsh, dry conditions, Var Oti is a dangerous world to visitors who aren't prepared.
This is a populous Wanderer world, with small farming villages scattered across all the land, and even a few larger population centers that might almost qualify as a city. But from the air, it is not evident at first that the planet is so heavily settled, because the village tree-houses are mostly hidden beneath the forest canopies. The farms, too, are almost indistinguishable from natural land, due to a permaculture system where many varieties of plants are growing side by side.
Apparently, just as humans use horses to carry loads and draw carts of produce, the Wanderers use a large breed of lizard, nearly three meters tall and walking on their hind legs. The lizards are meat-eaters: next to the watering troughs are cages full of large rodents, which the Wanderers occasionally feed to their beasts.
	Many different forms of produce are for sale here in open-air markets, including dozens of different nuts and berries. Aside from the rodents to feed to the lizards, and a few species of fish, the Wanderers do not seem to raise animals for food.
This is an Earth-like world with one major Wanderer city and countless smaller settlements. The settlements mostly consist of tree-houses built high up in living trees. The architecture of the city skyscrapers is full of cantilevered balconies and arches, mimicking the natural shape of a forest. Here and there a bit of smoke or steam rises from what must be a factory or power plant, but most of the land outside the city is green fields and pristine oceans.
This spaceport is as busy and chaotic as any major human trade hub, with the added complication that many of the Wanderers are flying from building to building instead of walking. Most of the buildings have balconies on every level, allowing visitors to enter from the air as well as from the streets.
	The starship landing pads are well outside the city, and ships land and take off along very tightly controlled vectors, probably to avoid midair collisions between the ships and the Wanderers who are flying on their own wings.
The surface of this small icy moon is constantly cracked and broken by tidal force from the gas giant that it orbits. The tidal disturbances also heat the moon enough to keep its oceans warm enough to support life despite the small amount of sunlight that reaches here.
The only habitation on this moon is a Wanderer research station suspended on metal pylons well above the icy surface of the ocean. The gravity here is low enough that even though the atmosphere is thin, the Wanderers who work in the station can fly out across the ocean on their own power, wearing some sort of breathing gear. The researchers also have a fleet of submarine ships, sturdy enough to pierce through the shifting ice and travel deep below the ocean surface.
This is the most populous Wanderer world, with dozens of large cities. The tallest buildings branch and cantilever out from their bases like metallic trees. More than half the surface of the planet is ocean, with a few small settlements built on massive living rafts of algae and seaweed, perhaps ten meters thick and up to several kilometers wide. Much of the land is forests, with villages built entirely in the treetops.
	There are also farms here, but more like gardens or parks than a human farm: each with dozens of species of plants growing side by side, and harvested by autonomous robots.
The streets in the Wanderer capital city seem to be mostly reserved for cargo vehicles; the Wanderers themselves fly from one building to another instead, and the skyscrapers have balconies dozens of stories above the ground where visitors can land or take off. The air traffic seems utterly chaotic, but somehow they avoid colliding with each other in midair, and certain columns of airspace have been reserved for ships taking off and landing so that flying Wanderers will not get caught in the backwash from the ship engines.
The surface of this world is almost entirely ocean, and the Wanderers who inhabit it live on massive floating algae mats, some of them the size of a small city. Engines are attached to some of these floating villages, allowing them to be slowly propelled from one part of the planet's surface to another, and the only native industries are fishing and seaweed farming.
The raft of algae that supports the spaceport is probably at least a dozen meters thick, but flexible enough that it bends as the ocean swells pass underneath, causing individual buildings to rise up or tilt slightly relative to their neighbors. The effect is subtle, but disconcerting, and you cannot help but stumble drunkenly at times as you explore the island.
This is a desert world, but the Wanderers are working little by little to make the desert bloom: planting hardy shrubs and cacti that eventually transform the sand into a soil that can hold moisture. In some regions, especially closer to the poles, the deserts have given way to dense forests, but near the equator there are still large stretches of dry and barren sand, broken by the occasional belt of green where a narrow river winds between the dunes.
The spaceport is in a forest village near the planet's north pole. The landing pads are massive stone monoliths laid on the ground in a nearby clearing. But aside from a few large warehouses at ground level, the village itself is entirely made of tree-houses. A few mechanical lifts have been built into the sides of the trees to carry cargo up to the forest canopy where the Wanderers live, but the Wanderers themselves seem content to fly between the houses rather than using the lifts.
This is a farming world, but the primary crops are medicinal plants rather than food: fields of brightly colored flowers and delicate shrubs. Large factories near the farms process the raw plants and extract useful chemical compounds. Their gleaming metal smokestacks belching steam into the air seem incongruous amid the natural beauty and bright colors of the fields of flowers.
The spaceport village is apparently not just a processing facility for the medicinal plants, but also a hospital of sorts. The village is designed to allow easy foot traffic as well as flight between buildings, and thousands of Wanderers, many of them appearing sick or elderly, live here. The main streets of the village are lined with vine trellises with flowers of every color imaginable, and mechanical lifts allow even the most frail Wanderers to travel up to the higher terraces and balconies.
Vara Pug is an ocean world, wild and almost unsettled, except for a single Pug city on the coast of one of the major continents. The animals and plants on the land are relatively uninteresting, but the oceans are home to an enormous variety of creatures, including whales the size of a bulk freighter, a highly intelligent species of jellyfish, and other, far stranger creatures that rarely venture up from the sunless ocean depths.
	To avoid contact with these marine creatures, when the Pug travel to other parts of the planet they use massive solar-powered airships rather than boats.
The Pug here all seem to be busy with various tasks, none of which make any sense to you: rushing from building to building on their long, spindly legs; playing a game involving colored stones on a hexagonal table; constructing what appears to be collaborative holographic artwork.
	None of them speak to you, but a worker in the spaceport digs around in a closet for a while and comes up with a conversion attachment that allows your fuel tanks to be filled using their style of fuel nozzle.
This is one of those rare worlds whose climate is already nearly perfect without the need for terraforming. The Wanderers have made it into a farming planet. The fields follow the natural contours and geology of the land rather than being laid out in rectangular lots like most human farms, and each field contains several different crop species designed to form a symbiotic ecosystem.
This could be a spaceport on any human farming world, except that the farmers hawking their wares have wings and beaks, and the wagons bringing produce to the market are drawn by massive lizards instead of horses. In several repair shops on the outskirts of town, Wanderer technicians work on massive harvester robots. The robots have four legs to walk on and dozens of dexterous manipulator arms for picking crops, and each arm has a camera eye on it.
The Wanderers harvest metal ores not from planets, but from asteroids, in order to not expend even more of the resources of the planets that are under their care. This star system contains an unusually high concentration of metallic asteroids, and as a result they have built many large refineries here to process the ore that their drones harvest.
The vast majority of ships landing and taking off from this port are unmanned Wanderer drones used for mining asteroids. The drones are maneuverable enough to avoid collisions with the few ships that land under manual control.
	The port itself is a small village surrounded by towering refineries. Unlike other Wanderer architecture, the refineries are ugly, brutal buildings made of weathered concrete.
Varu K'est is a spare, ancient planet of arid plateaus and deep, meandering canyons, with too little rainfall to support any but the hardiest of shrubs. The Wanderers have converted nearly all their villages on this planet into military bases in order to oppose the encroaching Hai raiders, and have also been forced to postpone their attempts at improving the local ecology.
The spaceport is a massive shipyard, with facilities for repairing the few warships that the Wanderers possess as well as creating new ships and weapons. Dozens of battle-scarred ships are parked in the hangars here, a stark contrast to the ports in the more peaceful regions of the Wanderer territory.
This is one of the only Wanderer worlds that still has large reserves of oil, albeit deep below the ocean surface where mining is difficult. Aside from the drilling companies and refineries, the largest local employer is the local government's safety oversight department, whose inspectors are constantly visiting the drilling platforms and shipping hubs to ensure that all the regulations for preventing oil spills are being followed.
Plastics and other refined oil products are as essential to Wanderer technology as to humans, but it is clear that those responsible for harvesting them are not held in high regard. The crews of visiting ships seem eager to interact with the locals as little as possible. However, that does not appear to stop the Wanderer freighters from purchasing large shipments of plastic, which will no doubt yield a substantial profit elsewhere in Wanderer space.
This Wanderer factory world is now home to more abandoned villages than populated ones: entire factories rusting and decaying as a result of the recent threat from the Unfettered Hai. Most of the factories that remain active have been repurposed to produce weapons or ammunition for the defense of Wanderer space.
Very few Wanderer children are present in the spaceport. Most of the inhabitants still live far above the ground in the customary Wanderer tree-houses, but that portion of the village is dwarfed by the more recently constructed factories and warehouses for war supplies. A steady stream of freighters brings in new equipment and raw materials for the factories.
This Wanderer world is almost uninhabited and devoid of any indigenous ecosystem, except perhaps on the microscopic level. It has none of the beauty of other Wanderer settlements. Here, factories have been built to process the most dangerous and destructive of industrial chemicals. If disaster strikes one of the factories, the only result will be the contamination of a world that is already dead and lifeless - far better, in the judgment of the Wanderers, than allowing such risky industries to operate on a living world.
Nearly all the operations of the factories here are automated, and the outside atmosphere is too thin for even the Wanderers to breathe. The workers live in dormitory apartments in a ring surrounding a large central dome. Inside the dome, protected from the elements, is a park whose gardens contain everything from towering conifers to fields of wildflowers; a necessary place of sanctuary and rest for the Wanderers who must spend the rest of their time servicing machines in the bleak environment outside the spaceport.
This is a desert world, too hot and too close to its sun to support much animal or plant life. The Wanderers have covered large stretches of the desert with solar-powered factories: smelters that use the sun's reflected heat to melt ore, and fields of solar panels that support other industries.
It is easy to distinguish the local workers from the visitors, because the locals wrap their wings in thin white sheets of cloth rather than leaving them bare: a necessary protection for any Wanderer who chooses to fly outside of the protective shade of the spaceport. Many of the buildings here extend deep underground, to where the surrounding bedrock is cooler than the hot sands at the surface.
Vatican's propensity for constant renewal of the surface has resulted in a flourishing astrogeological academic program. While it has frequently been dismissed as a low priority for Remnant efforts, it has nonetheless received continued support from the defense prefects. Why they would be concerned with the geological formations of an uninhabited planet is unknown, but the research continues.
Veliante may have been habitable once, but no longer. Part of its southern hemisphere is filled with deadly levels of radiation, but even elsewhere on the planet, it isn't safe to remain on the surface without adequate protection for too long. While animal life on the planet seems to have disappeared almost completely, plants and trees cover the surface in vast, colorful patches of flora.
Due to strong currents and extreme seasonal temperature fluctuations, the oceans of Vibrant Water are dotted with icebergs that can drift almost as far as the tropics before melting. The largest icebergs are more than a dozen kilometers across and are home to entire ecosystems ranging from ice-dwelling insects to sea birds to large seal-like mammals. Beneath the ocean surface shoals of fish, forests of kelp, and drifting clouds of algae provide a continuous food source for the creatures that inhabit the icebergs.
	Near the equator, the Saryds farm several species of engineered algae.
Very little of the industry on Vibrant Water takes place on land. The spaceport is built on a high bluff overlooking the sea, frequently visited by barges carrying goods from the floating factories and refineries out in the midst of the algae farms. Surrounding the port are fields of wind turbines positioned to catch the ocean breeze.
This hot desert world is home to several species of underground animals. These animals are very reptile-like, having appearances similar to that of lizards or salamanders from Earth, although much larger in size. It is believed that some indigenous species in Gegno space have originated from this world, or are descendants of ancestral species that once inhabited it.
This cold and dreary world would certainly not be attractive to any modern settlers, but to those who were fleeing the chaos of the Alpha Wars it had the undeniable advantage of being isolated and undiscovered. Today the main reason for the continuing Remnant presence here is that this is the only world they have found where the Key Stones that enable ships to travel through certain wormholes in the Ember Waste can be found.
The spaceport is an enormous dome, built of the same resilient and semi-organic material as the hulls of Remnant ships. An opening at one end of the dome allows ships to fly in and out. Inside, the air is still cold, but at least you are sheltered from the violent winds that sweep across the rest of the planet's surface. Some of the locals, accustomed to the cold, walk about in their shirtsleeves as if this were a balmy summer day.
Many centuries ago, some of the first settlers on Vinci included a small group of electrical engineers who formed a revolutionary new company for designing computers and microchips. Today, Vinci is the foremost manufacturer of CPUs in all of human space, and their processors are found in everything from navigational computers to video phones to intelligent toasters.
	Because this world is home to so many cleanroom fabrication plants, pollution is very tightly controlled.
The spaceport is so full of high-fidelity holographic displays that you have trouble at times telling where the virtual reality ends and the physical reality begins; what looks like a paper poster on the wall will suddenly change to a different picture every minute, and the department store mannequins follow you with their eyes. You feel like you are trapped in someone's drug-assisted vision of the future.
Warfeed is mostly covered in oceans, and much of its land area devoted to agriculture. Most of the fields are tilled and harvested by robots, but there are also many scattered homesteads of subsistence farmers, who survive with the aid of little or no technology.
	In recent years, both the land and the seas of Warfeed have begun to show the toll of centuries of overharvesting. Large portions of the continents near the equator are now nothing but growing deserts, and even the best remaining farmland is sandy and nutrient-poor. All but the smallest marine organisms have been nearly fished to extinction.
This spaceport is a collection of ramshackle wooden buildings and packed dirt landing pads. The wagons piled high with produce and bags of grain would not look out of place in many human ports, but they are being drawn by giant lizards instead of horses or oxen. There are no human beings here, and most of the Hai eye you with suspicion and distaste.
This is an ideal world, by Saryd standards: rugged, hilly, mostly forested, with oceans and land masses in equal proportions. It serves mostly as a residential world, because this system's heavy industry is focused on the automated factories on its sister world of Ceaseless Toil.
The spaceport is part of a city built into one of the slopes of a large mountain, with the landing pads and spaceport facilities near the peak. Saryds, Arachi, and Kimek mingle freely here and converse with the aid of interpreters or translation devices as they amble up and down the steep city streets.
The tropical rainforests of Warm Wind are unusual: instead of rivers on the surface, water flows through intricate underground networks of caves that span entire continents. The trees have evolved deep and strong roots that can pierce through the limestone into the subterranean rivers in order to draw a constant supply of water even in the dry seasons. The Saryds have explored only a tiny fraction of the caves.
The spaceport village is built on a volcanic highland where the inhabitants do not need to worry about their houses disappearing overnight into one of the limestone sinkholes that pockmark this planet's tropics. In place of trees, the village is full of trellised arches and spires; vines grow on the trellises, and moss grows on the vines, watered by the fog that sweeps up every evening from the rainforest below.
Watcher is a small moon, the only world in this system that sustains any indigenous life. Because of the low gravity, humans have not yet built a permanent settlement here, but it is occasionally visited by biologists interested in studying low-gravity life forms. There are forests here where the trees grow over two hundred meters tall.
Wayfarer was initially settled by a team of scientists and diplomats seeking to build a relationship with the Quarg worlds to the galactic southeast of here. Partly through the aid of the Quarg and partly through a desire to emulate them, it has grown into a very technologically advanced world.
	The Tarazed Corporation, a maker of alien-inspired ships and outfits, is one of the largest industries on Wayfarer, and they draw raw materials from throughout this region of space.
The spaceport is clearly the artifact of an architect who was as familiar with alien architecture as with human. Instead of square angles, it has many curved walls and domes. The landing pads jut out from the building at various heights. Some of the landing pads are designed with docking tubes specifically for Quarg visitors, and the ceilings are unusually high to accommodate the Quarg, several of whom are walking around and mingling with the humans here.
The Weir of Glubatub is a quiet ocean world, lit by a dim red sun, whose atmosphere seldom gathers enough energy to spawn storms or other violent weather. Nearly all the life in the oceans is very close to the surface, where the sun's light is bright enough for algae and seaweed to flourish.
	A few of the larger islands have been settled by the Arachi, and most of the locals work in the fishing industry. Some of the fishing boats are so large that a small starship can land on their decks.
The spaceport is on an island near one of the planet's poles, where the temperature is cool and sea ice can be gathered to stock the warehouses where the fish are kept cold until they can be shipped off-world. Even with most of the fish being kept on ice, the smell is still overpowering, except at the rare moments when the wind picks up and it is replaced by the smell of fresh salt air.
Nearly three quarters of the surface of Windblain is ocean. Most of the industry here centers around petrochemicals: deep sea oil drilling, refining, and manufacture of plastic composites and synthetic fabrics for clothing. There are a few large cities on the continents, but also plenty of wilderness spaces as yet untouched by human activity.
	The local climate and economy are neither good enough to attract immigration, nor bad enough to drive people to leave. There seems to be almost no interest in the affairs of the wider galaxy.
The spaceport is in one of the main cities, and is built partly on land and partly on piers that stretch out into the harbor, so that cargo can be brought to the port by truck or by barge. There are even a few runways for aircraft, in addition to the landing pads for starships.
	In the wharf area, fresh cooked fish and sushi are sold from a small cluster of wooden huts. Farther inland, cargo crates are stacked under the immense tents that serve as warehouses. There is a constant flow of people and cargo in between the harbor and the city.
The dense clouds in Winter's atmosphere block out much of the sunlight, creating a frigid landscape below. The planet was not settled until about a century ago, when a group of investors from Pherkad decided to build a manufacturing center here, rather than trying to find more land on the already overcrowded planet of Solace. Claiming that the industrial emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases would eventually warm the planet and turn it into a tropical paradise, they were able to draw enough settlers to keep the factories going.
	The temperatures have risen measurably since the arrival of the human colonists, but without more intentional efforts it may be another century before the planet warms enough to be truly comfortable to live on.
The spaceport is built on a large rock outcropping, with brilliant blue glaciers flowing to either side down into a lake below. The sight is stunning, and all the more appealing because you are able to view it from behind plate glass windows, in the warmth of the spaceport, rather than in the frigid air outside. Above you, several layers of clouds are scudding across the sky in different directions.
	Faded posters on the walls advise you to buy an estate on Winter now before prices skyrocket. The posters depict children playing in a lush green landscape while their grandparents stand by, looking quietly pleased with the wisdom of their investment.
Wye Tzeou is found in a noticeably quieter system than others. Its surface is covered in extreme crystalline-like structures protruding out in various fashions. These constructs are all extremely tall, and no two look alike. It seems the actual surface of the planet is far beneath a layer of these mysterious pillars. There is no apparent environmental reasoning to this composition as the soft snowy seasons and calm low winds are the most active natural elements on Wye Tzeou.
	Deep scans reveal even more odd compositions below, showing pockets in the depths of the glass forest that look like giant empty gaps between each pillar.
Wyvern Station was once one of the end destinations for the merchant caravans traveling along the Rim, back in the days before the Republic existed when most systems were not policed and the only way to avoid being plundered by pirates was for ships to travel in large convoys. It has also been a continuously operating hyperspace fuel refinery for more than three centuries.
This station is old, and some parts are dirty and in need of repair, but it is at least structurally sound, and the workers here seem optimistic and energetic. The cafeteria is loud and raucous, and the repair shop is more than willing to work on starships as a break from the tedium of repairing the harvester drones that dip into the planet's atmosphere to bring back pressurized tanks full of hydrogen gas.
Although formerly classified as a "Hot Jupiter," Xerolophos does not present all the characteristics of one: it is very far from the system star - so distant that it isn't even tidally locked to it. Its temperature, instead, is unusually high even for a Hot Jupiter, with the core internally heating up the atmosphere much more than expected.
	While it's possible that Xerolophos might have migrated here long ago, the Remnant haven't been able to explain the extreme temperatures of the planet even after years of studies and dispatching dozens of probes.
Although much smaller than most gaseous planets - including the one it orbits - the thick atmosphere of Yedikule and its rocky core make it a gas dwarf. While it was not the first to be discovered in human history, it is very improbable to have formed around a gas giant, and the extreme differences between its atmosphere and the one of Xerolophos further suggest this was not its original location.
	While virtually every craft that tries to land here is a fuel scooping drone, a large number of satellites orbit Yedikule at various heights, meaning that it must have been exhaustively studied in the past.
Yniu Eiu is a rocky world with many canyons. A large portion of the surface is bright shades of gray and white, but the more striking visuals are the patches of purple-red webbed lakes and rivers flowing across the surface. It is unclear if this is a natural occurrence or if these were artificially created, but the way the areas around these sights are dug out and shaped imply that this planet used to be a home to some type of civilization, or one that found importance in this material.
	The surface of these red-purple lakes and rivers move in odd ways that make them seem almost alive. Although they flow at extremely low rates, they also softly bulge and contract in a curious linear motion.
Like its parent planet below, Yniu Ena has a thick purple-reddish web of unnatural material spread across its surface, forming rivers and large lakes. While most of these lakes are rather small relative to the planet's surface, there are a few as large as oceans that give the appearance of scars on the planet.
Zenith is a cold and unpleasant world, where the fog seldom lifts and the sun is rarely seen, where much of the lowlands are flooded each day by the tide, and storms are unpredictable and fierce. It has, however, one major advantage as a place to settle: it is far enough away that the Republic makes no attempt to control it.
	Several villages have been founded near the equator, and in addition there are an unknown number of private holdings, ranging from underground bunkers to enormous concrete fortresses. Because the land is owned by no government and anyone can build a dwelling without permission or paperwork as long as they are willing to fight off any other claimants, the total population of Zenith is unknown.
To create a spaceport for Zenith, one enterprising privateer a few centuries ago used a mixture of explosives and heavy machinery to shift the top of one of the tallest mountains down into the neighboring valleys, creating a high plateau that is (usually) above the fog line. There are landing pads both for starships like yours and for airships that carry cargo to and from the settlements elsewhere on the planet. The port is nearly deserted, however; it is clear that they do not do much business here.
	楚格岛最大的产业是南行造船厂，它主要是设计防御性强的商船，以在这里常见的海盗中生存。
	远处是 "新港"，这是一个高耸的建筑，有机器人货物升降机和大型机库，供更昂贵的船只使用。同时，显然正在计划对新港进行扩建。你不禁要问，这个新的扩建工程将被命名为什么。
After the Korath were exiled from their homelands, efficient resource collection became a priority. World-ships were too precious to risk on dangerous forays, and Raiders lacked the cargo capacity. The Dredger was born as an answer to this problem, featuring an abundance of cargo and passenger space, with formidable defensive armament. With such a complement, these bulky ships can also offer potent support for frontline Raiders.
Successive Raider designs have been the Korath warship of choice for plundering neighboring species for generations.
This model, like all Exile ships, has been adapted to house as many Korath as possible, as comfortably as possible, inflating its size beyond similarly classed warships. The spaceborne construction techniques employed allow for the ship's easy replacement, facilitating continued raids of nearby systems.
The Korath Chaser is a fighter carried by most of their capital ships.
	Fighters do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a fighter unless you have a ship in your fleet with a fighter bay.
Korath World-Ships are massive nomadic habitats that hold all that is left of their people.
Passenger to <planet>
This old-timer captain offered to ride along with you to <destination>, and to give you some tips along the way.
Hundreds of years ago, the independent territories in different parts of human space agreed to join together into a single democratic government, with Earth as its capital. The rise of the Republic ushered in a long period of peace and prosperity in human history.
Representation in the Republic Parliament is based on population. That means that some individual "Paradise Worlds" have more representatives than entire regions of space like the Dirt Belt that are more sparsely settled.
The Syndicate is a megacorporation, the largest employer in human space. People who cannot find steady work elsewhere flock to the Syndicate factory worlds, where they are almost guaranteed to find a job. Although the Syndicate is technically part of the Republic, Syndicate worlds are governed directly by the corporation.
The Syndicate is a central part of the Republic's economy, but they are also well known for selling shoddy products and for doing damage to the environment on the worlds they control. Their treatment of workers is questionable, and their opposition to organized labor is legendary. Some Syndicate factory towns have even been accused of human rights abuses.
In poorer and more remote star systems, where the Navy seldom patrols, pirate attacks on merchant ships are frequent. Pirates are also known to attack large, unguarded convoys of freighters even in more populated areas. Most pirate fleets come from lawless worlds on the outskirts of human space.
With some trepidation, you give the shipyard owner your money and take your new ship for a test drive, piloting it out of the shipyard and onto a spare landing pad by the spaceport. Then you get out and look the ship over a bit more closely. You are busy polishing out a few rust spots with a piece of steel wool when an old man in grease-stained coveralls walks up.
	"Nothing quite like buying your very first starship," he says.
	"Yeah, I'm still kind of in shock over how much money I spent."
	"Well, I don't plan to get too attached to this one. I'll be flying something much nicer before long."
	"Beat it, old-timer, I've got more important things to do than chat with you."
	He grins. "I know the feeling. It's a crime how much interest the banks charge to first-timers. It's been that way ever since when I first started out."
	He smiles. "I'm sure you will. But there's something nice to having a ship you can pilot all by yourself. Believe me, once you have to start managing crew and paying salaries, or keeping track of a whole fleet, you'll miss these days when everything was simple."
	"You're a captain?" you ask.
	"Was," he says. "Sold off my fleet a few days ago, and I already miss it. But it was time. Time for me to retire." His voice trails off, then his face lights up. "Say, any chance I could hitch a ride with you, maybe show you the ropes, give you some pointers? I could pay you, of course."
	"Sure, where are you trying to get to?"
	"Sorry, I'd rather figure things out on my own."
	"Well," he says, "I've got a spot reserved in a retirement home, but I don't mind taking a roundabout way to get there. For starters, how about you give me a lift to <planet>? It's just one jump away from here; I can mark it on your map."
	"Sounds good!"
	"How much will you pay me?"
	"That's kind of a rude question," he says, "but I'll pay you ten thousand credits. I guarantee you that's more than any captain ever gets for carrying one passenger for one day."
	"That's really generous. Thank you."
	"You're treating me like a charity case? No thanks, I'll earn my money legitimately."
	"Great," he says. "My name is James, by the way."
	"<first> <last>," you say.
	"I'm looking forward to traveling with you, Captain <last>," says James.
	"<first> <last>?" he stops for a moment. "I've heard that name before. Reminds me of someone famous, I think," says James. "Anyways, I'm looking forward to traveling with you."
	As you're helping him wheel his luggage aboard and showing him his bunk, he says, "Before we take off, you might head on over to the trading center and stock up on medical goods; we can sell those for a good profit on <planet>. Also make sure to visit the local outfitter. While they don't sell much here compared to on the big manufacturing worlds, every world with an outfitter will at least carry a map with information on the neighboring systems. Buying them can help if you're not quite sure where you're going."
As you land on <planet>, James says, "Congrats on your first trip through hyperspace! I'm impressed that you didn't throw up; most folks do, the first time."
	"Including you?" you ask.
	"Yeah, and then spent half an hour in orbit cleaning my cabin while hoping the passengers wouldn't come out of their bunk room and see the mess. Not my proudest moment. Anyway, here's your pay." He hands you <payment>.
	Then he adds, "If you're okay with giving me a lift for a while longer, sell off any of that cargo you bought and then meet me in the spaceport. I'll see if I can rustle up any interesting work for you to do."
	(Click the "Spaceport" button to continue this mission.)
Transport family to <planet>
Bring your new friend James, along with this large family, to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>.
When you meet up with James in the spaceport, he says, "Hi there, <first>! I found you another mission, but it looks like you'll need <capacity> in order to take it on. So, you'll either have to cancel another mission, or come back here later to continue this one. Sorry!"
You begin strolling through the spaceport, walking briskly in order to keep warm and wondering if it might be worth investing in a good winter coat for visiting planets like this one. Eventually you find James. He has an entire family in tow: a young couple, an elderly woman, and four children who range in age from probably about three or four up to twelve or thirteen.
	"Captain <last>!" he says. "Wonderful to see you again. I was just talking to this family. They've been having trouble finding a single ship that can give them all passage, but I told them that your shuttlecraft has plenty of bunks, at least if the kids double up. They can pay you <payment> to take them to <planet>, which is just a few jumps away from Earth, and is a planet well worth visiting in its own right. What do you say?"
	You're absolutely sure that your shuttle was not designed to fit nine people including yourself, but if they're willing to squeeze into the available five bunks you've got no reason to discourage them.
	"Sure, welcome aboard!"
	"Sorry, I think I'd rather go off in my own direction from here."
	James helps the older woman up the steps and into your ship while the younger family members carry the luggage. You are going to have quite a full ship for the next few days.
Along the journey, you learned that the family you are transporting are named the Hendersons, and that they are moving to <planet> mostly because they hope the urban setting will be better for their kids than <origin>, where there were hardly any children at all and their village had only a few thousand people in it. The grandmother, Olivia, has also been chattering nonstop about how excited she is about being on a world where she can actually go sunbathing: "I've gotten much too old for snowshoeing," she says.
	You say goodbye to them and wish them well, and as agreed they pay you <payment>. You are already well on your way towards paying down your mortgage!
	As James leaves the ship, he says, "Again, if you're okay with continuing to give me a ride, just meet me in the spaceport."
	(As before, click the "Spaceport" button to continue this mission.)
Tourists to <planet>
These tourists will pay you <payment> to take them to <destination>. Your new friend James will also be tagging along for the ride.
It doesn't take you long to find James in the <origin> spaceport. He's already got a small group of people with him: a middle-aged couple, and a teenage boy. "Hi there, Captain <last>!" says James. "Interested in carrying some tourists to <planet>?"
	"Sure!"
	"No thanks, I think I'll strike off on my own now."
	"Great," he says. "This is Chuck, and Sarah, and their son Carl. Let's help them carry their luggage to your ship." As you begin walking back, slightly ahead of them, James whispers to you, "Tourists are always a good way to make money. They're on vacation, so they don't mind paying a bit extra. But no point in your cargo space going to waste, so take a look at the job board and see if there are any delivery missions we can run at the same time. And if you want to be a little safer should we come across any pirates, sell off any guns you might have. It might seem counterintuitive, but being unarmed makes you less of a target to pirates if there are others in the system that they could be defending themselves against."
As you make the final landing descent to the surface of Earth, Chuck and Sarah stare out the window in rapt attention, pointing out landmarks on the planet's surface. James joins in by telling you all about some of the history of the cities you are flying over. Carl, meanwhile, has spent the entire journey playing a handheld video game, and only glances out the window when the ship shakes from turbulence. As they all grab their luggage and step off your ship to explore humanity's homeworld, he is still immersed in the game.
	As you collect your payment, James pulls the parents aside and says, "Watch out for pickpockets, okay? And take it from an experienced captain, you do not want to be out after dark here. Play it safe, and have a great time."
	After they leave, James shakes his head ruefully. "It'll probably be a decade before that kid is old enough to realize what he's missing out on. Waste of money, doing a trip like this with a teenage boy. They should've gone to Skymoot and seen the dragons instead; I'm sure that would interest him a lot more than historical museums and ancient cities." Then, he picks up his luggage and adds, "Same deal as before. If you want to keep traveling together, meet me in the spaceport."
Bring James to <planet>
Bring James to <destination>, where he has a spot reserved in a retirement home.
The spaceport on <origin> is so big and crowded that it takes a long time to find James. The sheer number of people here is almost overwhelming. Homeless men wrapped in old army blankets beg money from well-dressed businessmen. Soldiers in Navy uniforms walk by in groups of ten or twenty, all marching in unison. Starship captains haggle with merchants over trade goods and jobs. Flashes of light come from various landing bays as welders make repairs.
	When you find James, he's standing by a window, looking out at the city, watching the starships taking off and landing in a continuous stream. "This is it," he says, "where our race began. The world that all the tourists want to visit, and that no one wants to live on. Twenty billion people, more industry and exports than any other place in the galaxy. But underneath it all, poverty of a completely different sort from what you've got in the Dirt Belt."
	After taking one last glance out the window, he says, "Anyway, we're nearing my destination. Are you willing to take me on one last trip? I need to get to <destination>, and of course I'll pay you quite well to take me there."
	"Of course."
	"Sorry, but I was planning on heading out in a different direction from here."
	Once again you walk back to your ship with James. Once you get there, as he's stowing his luggage, you pull up the information your computer has on <planet>. It's one of the "Paradise Worlds," terraformed to have a perfect climate, accessible only to the very wealthy. You wonder whether James is going to be able to fit in there.
Delivery to <planet>
Travel with your new friend James to <destination>, and deliver <cargo>.
The spaceport on <origin> is small enough that it doesn't take long to find James. He's talking with a man wearing what looks like a doctor's lab coat. "Captain <last>!" says James. "Glad you could join us. It turns out there's been a flu outbreak on <planet>, and they're asking every captain with space to spare to carry some vaccines and other medical supplies over there. Are you willing to help out?"
	"Sure, anything I can do to assist them!"
	"Sorry, I've heard bad things about that region of space. I think I'm going to head in the other direction."
	"Great!" says James. "They'll be loading up your ship shortly."
You drop off the shipment of <commodity> on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>. "Hauling freight," says James. "Not the most glamorous job, or the most interesting, but you're always guaranteed steady income. And once you know the galaxy a bit better, instead of taking missions you can find your own trade routes to follow. The only trouble is, build up a fleet with lots of cargo space and not enough defenses and the pirates begin to take notice."
	"Did you have a lot of trouble with pirates when you were a captain?"
	"But what if I want to earn money more quickly than I can by trading?"
	"Some. That's why you can't just go traipsing around the galaxy in a fleet of unarmed star barges; every pirate within a week's travel will hear you're coming through and come after you. In the long term, having a few heavy freighters with good defenses is more cost-effective than losing a star barge or two to the pirates on every journey."
	"There's no quick road to riches, kid. The more something pays, the riskier it is. If you need to make lots of money in a hurry, bounty hunting is the way to go, but nine out of ten pilots who give bounty hunting a try end up dead. And, no one's going to give you those sorts of missions until you've proved yourself in combat, anyway."
	He picks up his suitcase. "If you want to run another mission with me, look for me in the spaceport. I'll see if I can find you something with a bit higher profit margin this time."
Rush delivery to <planet>
This shipment of <commodity> needs to get to <destination>, by <date>.
As you walk through the spaceport, James sees you from a distance and waves you over. As you approach, the smell of raw fish overwhelms you. "I've found another job for you," he says.
	"Is it by any chance an unusually smelly job?"
	"Sorry, I think I'll head off on my own now."
	"It is indeed," he says, "but a lucrative one. <cargo> needs to get to <planet> while it's still fresh, and that means it needs to be there no later than <day>. If we take a direct route, there should be no trouble making the delivery on time. What do you say?"
	"Sounds good. Let's do it!"
	"Sorry, no way am I loading up my shiny new starship with smelly fish."
	"Great!" he says. "I mentioned this earlier, but you might want to stop by the outfitter and buy a local map. Hyperspace routes aren't always logical, and the last thing you want to do is get lost and end up with a pile of rotten fish that no one wants filling up your cargo hold."
By now, your entire ship smells like brine and raw fish, but as best you can tell the fish is still fresh enough to eat. The dock workers on <planet> offload it without comment, and give you your payment of <payment>.
	"If you can line them up right," says James, "rush deliveries can be your best source of income as a freighter captain. And keep your eye out for missions with large amounts of cargo, too, because your barge's hold is definitely big enough to handle them. And if you've got any cargo space to spare and you know what the prices are going to be at your destination, be sure to stock up on something you can sell for a profit."
	"What would you recommend if I want to do more than just carry cargo?"
	"Was that what you did for your whole career?"
	He pauses for a moment to think, then says, "Unless you want to do something really risky like hunting pirates, your best bet is to work with the Navy, or the Syndicate, or one of the local militias. Any of those would be a decent choice, although they've each got their own problems. If any of them offer you a mission, go ahead and take it; that's a good way to build connections and get to know the lay of the land."
	"Well," he says, "Back when I was a bit older than you, I piloted a Firebird for a while, escorting merchant convoys up and down the Rim. I used to hope we'd get attacked; I'd disable the pirate ships and rob them blind. Turnabout is fair play, after all.
	"Then one day I got a bit too greedy and thought I'd try to capture a pirate ship or two, to add more firepower to my fleet. We boarded their ship, and I sent my crew through the airlock to kill off the pirates. And it turns out the pirates had grenades. Four of my men were dead before I even realized what was happening. We had to retreat, and then limp back to port without even enough crew left uninjured to pilot the ship right. After that I decided to stick to less risky jobs."
	He glances toward the spaceport and says, "Anyway, if you want to make one more trip with me, you know where to find me."
Drop James off on <destination>, where he has a spot reserved in a retirement home.
You find James talking with a group of miners, who seem to be old acquaintances of his. As you approach, he says, "Well guys, here comes my ride. I should probably say goodbye." They head back off to do their work. "Every time I land here," says James, "I'm amazed that this station hasn't been wiped out yet by a meteorite. Can you imagine spending your life here?"
	"It does seem awfully isolated. But some people might enjoy the solitude."
	"Well, if you need the money, at least it's a steady job."
	"I suppose," he says. "Anyway, I think it's time for the last leg of my journey. Do you think you can give me a lift to <planet>? I'll pay you quite well for your services, of course."
	"Sure, I can take you there."
	"Sorry, I was thinking of heading in a different direction from here."
Escort convoy to <planet>
Escort a merchant convoy to <destination>, along with your new friend James.
You find James standing on a landing pad underneath a large freighter, chatting with a man you assume is the captain. "There you are!" he says. "Captain Eldred here says his two ships have been having trouble with pirates ever since they left the Rim ten days ago, and he's looking for an escort to get them safely to Gemstone. Are you interested?"
	"Of course!"
	"No, sounds a bit too risky for me."
	"Great," he says. "Whenever we're ready to leave the planet, they'll take off behind us and follow us to <planet>." As you begin walking away together, he adds in a quieter voice, "Normally a fresh pilot like you with no combat reputation would never be offered a mission like this, so try not to mess things up. Remember that we don't have to kill the pirates, all we have to do is make sure the convoy isn't destroyed. But freighters are slow, so you can't just go skipping through hyperspace as fast as you want; you need to stick around and make sure they're behind you."
The captain of the Horn of Plenty hands you <payment> and thanks you for your escort services. From the expression on his face, you'd guess that he's feeling lucky to still be alive after entrusting the safety of his fleet to a rookie pilot like yourself.
	After he is gone, James turns to you and says, "Not too bad for your first escort mission. I recognize that look on your face - it's the same one I had after my first job like this back when I was a beginner. If I recall, my first priority after touching down was replacing some of the ship's guns with missile launchers so I'd actually have a chance against pirates. It's a scandal how they sell interceptors with nothing but short-ranged energy weapons these days; trying to use them in combat on such a small ship is practically suicide. Keep your distance with some missiles and you can almost never go wrong. Anyway, I'll stop rambling. If you've still got a hankering for some dangerous missions, come and find me in the spaceport before you leave." He picks up his suitcase and heads outside.
	（和以前一样，点击 "太空港 "按钮，继续这个任务。下一个任务将涉及运载货物，所以只有在你有全部15吨空间的情况下才会显示出来）。
Deliver <commodity> to <destination>, while avoiding pirate attacks.
You find James in the spaceport bar, talking with a woman wearing a business suit. The expression on James' face is growing increasingly concerned as she speaks. Seeing you come in, he waves to you and you join them at the table.
	"Hello <first>," says James. "This is Marissa, a senior manager at the mines." You shake hands with her.
	"Here's the deal," says Marissa. "Most of the gemstones we mine here are industrial grade, not pretty enough to be worth using as anything but sandpaper grit or drill bits. But every once in a while we happen on some higher quality gems. No one in this sector has the money to spend on jewelry, so we ship them north to the Paradise Worlds.
	"But in the past few months, every shipment we've sent has been attacked by a pirate ship, the Hammer of Thor. We don't have the money to pay a bounty hunter to take out the Hammer, so instead we're going to pay you to outrun it. Is the <ship> a fast ship?"
	"As fast as they come. Nothing bigger than a fighter could chase it down."
	"Not fast enough. I don't think I can risk taking on this mission."
	"Great," she says. "My people will load up your ship immediately. Good luck, Captain."
	After she leaves, James says to you, "Now, get one thing clear. This is not your David and Goliath moment. The Hammer's shields are ten times as strong as yours, and if it's able to bring its weapons to bear, we'll be dead in two seconds. So, the moment we're in the sky, we head straight for hyperspace. Don't even wait around to see if the Hammer is coming or not. Got it?"
	"Got it."
	"I really shouldn't try to fight?"
	"It just isn't feasible," he says. "If a ship has turrets, your Sparrow can't get close enough to hit it with your guns without being damaged, and then it's just a matter of whose weapons and shields are stronger. And one Heavy Rocket hit could nearly disable you. Also, if it has anti-missile turrets, you can't count on hanging back and bombarding it with missiles from long distances, or at least not with weapons that can fit in a Sparrow. So, don't risk it. It's like rock paper scissors; recognize what your enemy's strengths and weaknesses are, as well as your own."
As you land on Ingot, James says, "Well, you made it in one piece! Still think you want to be piloting a Sparrow?"
	"Sure, but I can't wait until I've got a ship big enough to stand up to pirates instead of running from them."
	"Well, maybe I should've bought a freighter instead."
	"Better start saving up then," he says. "I know a number of old Sparrow pilots who made their first million credits mining asteroids before they could afford a more combat-worthy ship. They had to look around for a while before finding a system with any asteroids worth mining, but it was worth it. Anyway, let's go get your payment." You walk out of the ship and sign the papers to hand off the <commodity> to the dock workers on <planet>. They hand you a credit chip worth <payment>.
	"If you're willing to take me on one more journey," says James, "meet me in the spaceport bar in a little while."
You find James sitting at the spaceport's tiny bar, sipping a beer while listening to the steady patter of micrometeorites against the roof. "Working here," says James, "is one of the few jobs in the galaxy more dangerous than fighting pirates. And worse, because if a big meteorite decides to strike this station, there's basically nothing they can do about it except hope they see it coming. Care for a drink?"
	"Sure."
	"No thanks."
	He buys you a beer. It tastes a little stale, but it's not the worst beer you've ever had. You can't help but feel sorry for the people who work here, so isolated and cut off from even the basic amenities you took for granted on New Boston.
	"Anyway," says James, "would you be willing to take me on one more journey? It's time for me to head for that retirement home."
	"Sorry, I think I'll go hunt some pirates instead."
	As you are piloting your ship down to land on <planet>, James disappears into his bunk room. After the ship has landed he comes out, no longer in the grease-stained coveralls he's been wearing up until now, but in a suit. As a lifelong textile worker, you automatically note that the suit is made of real wool, very finely woven, and that it has been tailored to fit him. He smooths down the front of the suit distractedly and then looks at his hands as if unsure of where to put them. "How do I look?" he asks.
	"Like a millionaire."
	"You look great."
	"Well, that's the other thing about being a captain," he says. "You can get filthy rich."
	"Let's hope the locals think so," he says.
	There's an awkward pause. You're unsure of how to respond. Then he says, "Thing is, this here planet is one of the most exclusive retirement communities in the galaxy. Plenty of the locals are probably worth more than a billion credits. But they're mostly financial or business types, or old money. I'm rich enough to be here, but I just hope they're willing to socialize with someone who made his fortune flying a ship.
	"Before you go, is there anything else you'd like to ask me about being a new pilot?"
	"Where should I go if I want to avoid pirates?"
	"What's a good place to mine asteroids?"
	"Have you ever met any aliens?"
	"Are there any good trade routes you can give me?"
	"Where can I find well-paying jobs?"
	"I think I'll manage."
	"Stay near Sol and around the Paradise Worlds. The Navy stays there the most, so even if a pirate does show up, they won't last long. The Deep is also a pretty safe place, as they have their own security forces. Once you start moving farther south, things get riskier. The worlds down there don't bring in as much tax revenue as the Paradise Worlds do, so the Navy tends to ignore them. You'll find some local militia to back you up, but they're nothing compared to one of the Navy's Cruisers.
	"Well to start off, you'll want to stay right here in the Paradise Worlds. The asteroids aren't the best, but it's the safest place to mine while you're still in a small ship. But once you're in something that's able to take a hit, you'll want to explore for an uninhabited system with lots of asteroids. You'll encounter more pirates, but you'll likely find better asteroids.
	"I've spoken with the Quarg a few times, but what captain hasn't? You'll find them down south by Tarazed. I haven't met any other aliens," he pauses for a moment, "as far as I'm aware, that is, but I'm sure they're out there if you go looking hard enough. I've explored all of Republic space in my many years, but there are far more systems out there that we don't even know how to reach.
	"One of the most reliable trade routes is to bring food from the Dirt Belt to Earth or the other urban worlds around it. There are billions of mouths to feed on those worlds, and the Dirt Belt sells food for cheap, so it's a great place to get started. Just remember though that if you use the same trade route for too long, you might end up causing the prices to stabilize. The Dirt Belt can only produce food and people can only eat it so fast, so change up your trade routes if you notice the return getting worse.
	"Getting good jobs is more about having the space to accept the good jobs than it is finding them, but if you're looking for jobs that pay well for little effort, then you'll want to watch out around the holidays. There's always a big celebration on Earth every April 22nd, Earth Day, so pay attention to the job board in the months leading up to that. The people down in the Rim have some month-long celebration every August that you should look out for too.
	"Anything else you want to ask me?"
	He hands you a credit chip worth <payment>, and says, "Best of luck to you, Captain. Don't hesitate to look me up if you're ever in the area. And remember to check the spaceports wherever you land. You never know who you'll find wandering around there."
This is a miniature nuclear reactor, used by the Korath to power their fighters.
This massive reactor was designed by the Korath to meet the power needs of their largest ships.
Korath fighters are not able to recharge their shields, but their larger ships are equipped with one of these.
Korath weapons generate extreme amounts of heat, and the cooling systems they require are massive.
This engine is used by Korath fighters.
This engine is used in the Korath capital ships.
A mass expansion allows you to sacrifice some cargo space in order to make room for more outfits, in situations where you need just a bit more space to install a particular system. It does not increase your weapon or engine space unfortunately.
It is a very rare privilege to be permitted to purchase a Navy capital ship for private use - not just because of a Cruiser's firepower, but because it is a potent symbol of the Republic's strength.
Only a handful of people in the past century have been given permission to purchase a Navy Carrier, even a decommissioned one, for private use.
An afterburner works by dumping hyperspace fuel into your engines and igniting it, producing a large amount of thrust. This can be very useful for dodging missiles or briefly escaping from faster opponents, but you must be careful to avoid using up so much fuel that you do not have enough left for hyperspace travel.
Korath Grab-Strike projectiles are designed to pull a target closer to the Korath ship, to keep it from escaping.
The Korath like to keep their enemies close... but not too close.
This anti-missile system helps defend Korath warships from long-range attacks.
The Korath Fire-Lance is a medium-range beam weapon designed to be used by their fighters.
This is the smallest and simplest Korath projectile weapon, designed mostly for use on fighters and drones. As with most Korath technology, it generates a large amount of heat, enough that the gun must pause briefly after every few shots to cool down.
Korath repeaters fire compact bolts of superheated plasma at their targets. For every one of these turrets installed on a ship, an auxiliary cooling system is typically required to cope with its heat output.
This missile is fired from a Korath Piercer Launcher.
The Korath Piercer Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Korath Piercer Launchers.
Korath Piercer Missiles carry a pair of warheads. The first, a smaller one in the very tip of the missile, explodes on impact to blast a hole in the ship's shields to allow some of the subsequent, larger explosion to pierce through.
This is ammunition for a Korath Minelayer. Each mine splits into eleven submunitions after it is deployed.
The Korath Mine Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Korath Minelayers.
This launcher fires cluster munitions that split into a cloud of stationary mines that each do a considerable amount of damage if a ship crashes into them. However, if a ship hits the mine before it has a chance to deploy, the damage is considerably reduced.
Korath Disruptors interfere with a ship's shields, allowing a ship's hull to be damaged even when shields are up. However, they do very little hull damage by themselves.
This massive beam weapon is relatively ineffective against shields, but cuts through hull armor like it's made of paper.
This turret fires a tightly focused energy beam that is particularly effective against hull armor. When paired with a disruptor turret, it is a deadly combination.
This rifle is commonplace among the Korath, predating the creation of the Repeater by at least two centuries. As it uses superheated plasma instead of lasers, the rifle is slow to fire and can sometimes burn its user's hands if they aren't careful. It makes up for these setbacks by guaranteeing that those hit won't live long enough to fire back.
Press <View star map> to bring up your map. Select a destination, then close the map and press <Initiate hyperspace jump> to jump. Press <Land on planet / station> to land.
For the main menu, press <Show main menu>. The control key bindings can be viewed and changed in the preferences.
Taking on jobs is a safe way to earn money. Special missions are offered in the Spaceport; more mundane jobs are posted on the Job Board. Most special missions are only offered once: if you turn one down, it will not be offered to you again.
The payment for a job depends on how far you must travel and how much you are carrying. Jobs that have a time limit pay extra, but you are paid nothing if you miss the deadline.
As you gain a combat reputation, new jobs will become available, including escorting convoys and bounty hunting.
There's nothing out here. The only way to get to another star system is by jumping through hyperspace. Unless you are out of fuel, you can jump by pressing <Initiate hyperspace jump>. To select which system you want to jump to, bring up the map by pressing <View star map>.
At any time, you can return to the main menu by pressing <Show main menu>. All the key controls can be viewed, and changed, in the Preferences.
You seem to be lost. The universe is a big and complicated place, and no one is going to hold your hand out here. You might want to review the key controls (press <Show main menu> to bring up the main menu, then click on "Preferences") to figure out what is going on. There is also a player's manual with much more information. To read it, go to endless-sky.github.io and click on "Manual."
The void between the stars is cold and empty. Your ship, a tiny oasis of warmth, drifts alone out here illuminated only by the distant light of cold, uncaring suns. The distances between the stars are vast, beyond what the human mind can grasp; you could spend your whole life drifting out here and never reach another star.
Or, you could press <Initiate hyperspace jump> to use your hyperdrive. It will get you there a whole lot faster.
Out here in the endless sky, you have the freedom to do whatever you want in your tiny new spaceship. Become the captain of a merchant fleet. Or a bounty hunter. Discover strange alien societies and powerful new technology.
Or if you want, you can just keep drifting here in empty space. Unless you've been ignoring all these messages, you already know that you can jump to another star system by selecting it in the map (which you bring up by pressing <View star map>), then closing the map and pressing <Initiate hyperspace jump>.
The hum of your ship's engine is the only sound you hear. As you have traveled farther and farther away from the center of this star system, even the occasional plink of micrometeorites against your hull has stopped. Deep space is utterly quiet and strangely beautiful. A different captain might grow bored out here, but you find yourself content and at peace.
Or maybe you're just really, really bad at figuring out how to play this game.
You slip deeper and deeper into the zenlike calm of outer space. The Tao which can be spoken is not the true Tao. The game that must be played is not the true game. You let go of all desire: your desire to press <Show main menu> and check the game's preferences to find out how to control your ship. The desire to view the other places you can travel to by pressing <View star map>. You release even the desire to press <Initiate hyperspace jump> and initiate a random hyperjump in whatever direction you are facing in. Enlightenment hovers on the edge of your consciousness, so close you can almost grasp it.
The void whispers its secret to your soul: outer space, it says, is not about lasers or explosions. It is not about fighting space pirates or saving the galaxy. No, the true message of the void is the utter loneliness you have found while drifting here: one tiny speck of warmth, insignificant compared to the vasty nothingness between the stars and the trillions upon trillions of souls of proud humans and inscrutable aliens whom you will never meet.
The inner voice urging you to do something, anything rather than just continuing to drift here, falls silent...
As you explore more of the galaxy, the star map will quickly become a very powerful tool. Clicking on a distant system will automatically plot the quickest route to it. You can Shift+click on systems to plot a route between them, or Control+click to select a system without setting a route to it.
There are many other useful modes the map can be set to. Click on one of the buttons in the lower right corner to learn more.
The ports panel shows you where systems with spaceports are, as well as a plethora of other information. Clicking on the name of the system, the government of the system, the lines under the name of each planet, or any trade commodity will color the map differently, the key to which can be seen on the right side of the screen.
Clicking the name of a planet, or clicking on a planet in the orbit map on the right side of the screen, will show that planet's description if you have visited it already. Clicking a planet on the orbit map will also tell your autopilot to land on that planet after you have arrived at that system at the end of your jump path.
The shipyard and outfitter map panels respectively display the ships and outfits sold on any planets that you have seen. Ships and outfits are displayed in categories which can be collapsed by clicking on the category name. Using Shift+click on a category name will collapse or uncollapse all the categories at once.
Each ship or outfit can be clicked on, displaying that item's stats while also highlighting any planets where it is sold. Using Shift+click on a ship or outfit after you already have one selected will display that item's stats side by side with the previously selected item.
Now that you have more than one ship, while landed on a planet you can reorder the ships in your fleet by clicking and dragging them in the shipyard, outfitter, or player info panel. Ships can also be sorted by clicking on the column headers in the player info panel. You will use the first ship in the list as your flagship. In the player info panel (accessed with <View player info>) you can also "park" a ship on a planet if you want to travel somewhere without it coming with you.
The ship info tab lets you view detailed information about ships in your fleet at any time. This includes any information you could see at a shipyard or outfitter, as well as the cargo and passengers distributed among each ship.
Ships can be renamed in this panel by clicking on the ship's name. While landed on a planet, you are able to change how guns and turrets are arranged by dragging the name of a weapon to another gun or turret location. While in flight, you are able to jettison individual pieces of cargo by clicking on the name of the cargo.
Once you're in space with multiple ships that you own, you can give orders to those escorts. Orders will be given to all selected escorts, or if no escorts are selected then all your escorts will receive the order. Escorts can be selected by either clicking on them in space, clicking the ship icon at the bottom left of the screen, or by clicking and dragging to select a group of escorts in space. The list of escort order keys can be found in the preferences panel.
Escorts can also be ordered with the mouse. Right-clicking on an empty point in space will order escorts to fly to and hold position at that point, while right-clicking on a hostile ship will order your escorts to focus fire on it, and right-clicking on a friendly target will cause them to follow it.
Escorts can be saved into control groups by pressing Control+number key. All selected escorts will then be bound to that number key, selecting the group when pressed.
Welcome to the sky! To travel to another star system, press <View star map> to view your map, and click on the system you want to travel to. Your hyperdrive can only travel along the "links" shown on your map. After selecting a destination, close your map and press <Initiate hyperspace jump> to jump to that system.
Your ship does not jump until you release the jump key. Once you have escorts, you can hold the key to get them ready to jump, then release it to have them all jump simultaneously.
When you reach a new system, you can press <Land on planet / station> to land on any inhabited planets that are there.
Also, don't worry about crashing into asteroids or other ships; your ship will fly safely below or above them.
Here, you can buy new equipment for your ship. Your ship has a limited amount of "outfit space," and most outfits use up some of that space.
Some types of outfits have other requirements as well. For example, only some of your outfit space can be used for engines or weapons; this is your ship's "engine capacity" and "weapon capacity." Guns and missile launchers also require a free "gun port," and turrets require a free "turret mount." Also, missiles can only be bought if you have the right launcher installed.
Use your scroll wheel, or click and drag, to scroll the view.
As in the trading panel, you can hold down Shift, Control, or Alt to buy 5, 20, or 500 of an outfit at once, or multiple keys for larger amounts.
Sometimes you may want to buy some outfits directly into your cargo hold instead of having them installed. Perhaps a mission has asked you to retrieve some outfits or you want to carry extra ammunition to refill your ships somewhere that does not stock those weapons. To accomplish this, you need to switch out of installation mode into 'purchase to cargo' mode. This can be achieved by Control+clicking on your selected ship to deselect it.
When you are in 'purchase to cargo' mode, your ship information on the right-hand side will be replaced by information on how much cargo space you currently have available.
Outfits that are in your cargo hold can be (re)installed at any outfitter without cost.
You can also uninstall outfits directly into planetary storage by selecting the outfit and pressing U. This can be useful for if you want to shuffle outfits between ships, store outfits for future use, or simply try on different outfits. Outfits in storage can also be transferred to cargo when you go to 'purchase to cargo' mode. Outfits that are in planetary storage or cargo can be (re)installed at any outfitter without cost.
If you sell an outfit at an outfitter, then you can immediately buy it back for the same price that you sold it, so long as you do not leave the planet. This means that you do not necessarily need to worry about uninstalling outfits into planetary storage when you are changing outfits around.
Oops! You just ran out of fuel in an uninhabited star system. Fortunately, other ships are willing to help you.
Press <Select next ship> to cycle through all the ships in this system. When you have a friendly one selected, press <Talk to selected ship> to hail it. You can then ask for help, and if it has fuel to spare it will fly over and transfer fuel to your ship. This is easiest for the other ship to do if your ship is nearly stationary.
This is the trading panel. Earn money by buying commodities at a low price in one system, and selling at a higher price elsewhere. To view your map of commodity prices in other systems, press <View star map>. To buy or sell, click on [buy] or [sell], or select a line with the up and down arrows and press "+" or "-" (or Enter and Delete).
You can buy 5 tons at once by holding down Shift, 20 by holding down Control, 500 by holding down Alt, or larger amounts at a time by holding down two keys at once, or even all three.
This ship is disabled and needs your help to patch them up! Pressing <Board selected ship> will fly you to their ship and get them up and running again. Just be sure to do it when no one is trying to kill you, or they could get caught in the crossfire!
Deep Archaeology
Drop this archaeologist off on <destination>, before making a trip to Midgard in the Deep to collect some samples.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man in an expensive suit approaches you. "Pardon me, Captain," he says. "I wonder if you would be willing to talk privately about a very lucrative job opportunity."
	"Is this something illegal?"
	"Sure, let's return to my ship and talk there."
	"Not illegal," he says, "but it could help to uncover a secret with enormous ramifications. A secret that certain people do not want known."
	"Okay," you say, "let's return to my ship, and I'll hear you out."
	You lead him back to your ship. "I'm an archaeologist," he explains, "studying the early history of the space era. And in particular, a set of persistent folk tales about contact with alien species. Many of these tales have to do with the region of the galaxy we call the Deep. I need someone to travel to Midgard and retrieve some samples from an ancient site there."
	"Why can't you travel there yourself?"
	"What sort of samples? Will this get me in trouble?"
	"Well, let's just say I've made myself somewhat unpopular in the Deep," he says. "Asking too many questions. If I were seen walking around on Midgard, they would probably ask me to leave immediately."
	You say, "And, is the work you're asking me to do going to make me equally unpopular?"
	"Not if you are circumspect," he says. "I need two samples from a certain village. One is simple: wood from a living or recently deceased tree. Any tree will do."
	He pauses for a minute, then continues. "The other is more... sensitive. There is a historical site on Midgard, an ancient church. Not something they publish in the official tourist guides, mind you. I need a small sample of the wood that the church is built with. A small splinter would suffice."
	"Sure, if it's in the interest of science, I can do that."
	"You're asking me to vandalize a historical site?"
	"I need only the tiniest of samples," he says, "maybe a splinter of wood that is already peeling off, or from a place where the wood is worn and cracked. And what we discover from that sample could be of immense importance."
	"Sorry, that sounds a bit too shady to me."
	"Okay, I'm willing to do that."
	"Thank you," he says. "Trust me, this could give us some very important information. I'll need you to drop me off on Vinci first, to meet with some scientists. We can then meet up back on Vinci once you have the samples."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the archaeologist hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Travel to <destination> and take wood fiber samples from an ancient church and from the trees that grow nearby.
You drop off the archaeologist (who still has not told you his name) on <origin>. "Remember," he says, "I only need a tiny splinter. Just make sure it really is from the building and not anything more recent."
Return to <destination> with the wood samples that you retrieved from the church on <origin>.
Following the map that the archaeologist gave you, you make your way to a small village in the mountains on <origin>, with two envelopes in your pocket for samples. As you approach the church, you break a dead twig off one of the trees along the path, put it into the first envelope, and pocket it. One sample collected, one more to go.
	The church itself is unlike any building you have seen before, clearly very ancient, built of roughly hewn wood, old and weathered. Surprisingly, the front doors are open, and you hear music coming from inside.
	(Walk into the church.)
	(Take a sample from the outside.)
	(Give up on this mission and leave, before I get into trouble.)
	You walk around the outside of the building until you find one corner where the wood has been recently scuffed, and a few hairs of it are hanging loose. You carefully pick the splinters off and put them in the second envelope. Then, you return to your ship. Although you see no one following you, you can't shake the feeling that you are being watched.
	This church must still be used for services: candles are lit up front, and a man in a white surplice is playing the organ. A few people sit in the pews with their heads bowed. Trying to be as unobtrusive as possible, you join them, and look around at the ornately carved pillars and wood panels. The air in here smells of incense and musty wood.
	(Take a sample.)
	(Give up on this mission, and leave.)
	Pretending to pray, you kneel on the ground, take your pocket knife, and shave the tiniest sliver off the bottom corner of the pew in front of you. It leaves a small white scar in the dark weathered wood of the pew. You pocket the sample, wait a few more minutes, and then leave and walk back to the spaceport. Although you see no one following you, you cannot shake the feeling that you are being watched.
You return to the lab where you dropped off the anonymous archaeologist. Soon after you arrive, he appears and eagerly collects the two samples, giving you a payment of <payment> for your troubles. "But please," he says, "stick around long enough to learn the results." He hands the two envelopes to a lab technologist, and says, "Here you go, John, take a look and let us know what you find."
	After the lab tech leaves, he explains, "You see, the ratio of Carbon 12 to Carbon 14 varies from world to world, so accurate dating can only be done if you have a control sample to compare against. Only a handful of archaeological studies have been done in the Deep, and those were sloppy - they used the standard tables of Earth's carbon ratios instead of determining the local concentrations."
	(Wait and see what the results are.)
	About thirty minutes later, John reappears, looking somewhat shaken. "Where did you get those samples?" he asks.
	"Never mind that," says the archaeologist. "What are your results?"
	"The second sample is infused with some sort of oil or tar," he says. "A varnish. And therefore it is from furniture or a building. A man-made artifact. The control sample has an isotopic ratio different from Earth, so unless you're playing games with me, these samples are not from Earth."
	"Go on," says the archaeologist.
	"However," says the lab tech, "again assuming the two samples are from the same planet, the second sample is between fifteen hundred and twenty-five hundred years old. Which means it predates the discovery of the hyperdrive by, at minimum, five centuries. So again I ask you, where did you get these samples?" His voice is raised.
	"Intriguing, isn't it?" says the archaeologist. "Captain <last>, if you'd like to help us get to the bottom of this, make sure you've got space for us and some equipment, and meet us in the spaceport."
Return to <destination> with some specialized equipment for subterranean mapping.
An archaeologist who is famous for using dubious methods: he has been banned from Quarg space for trying to collect an alloy sample from their ringworld, and is rumored to have also been involved in a scheme involving dinosaur fossils and an illegal genetic resequencer. He is currently based on Vinci, on the edge of the Paradise sector.
You find John the lab tech in one of the spaceport bars, along with the archaeologist, who says, "I suppose I should introduce myself. Albert Foster. You may have heard of me." Indeed, you have: he made headlines about a decade ago by being driven out of Quarg space after trying unsuccessfully to collect an alloy sample from their ringworld.
	"We've purchased some equipment for gravitational field mapping," he says, "in addition to a very sensitive radar array. We're hoping to map the area around the church, see if there are signs of any ancient settlements. Are you willing to help us?"
	"Sure, I'd love to help solve this mystery."
	"Sorry, I can't. I'm worried we're going to make people in the Deep angry."
	"Excellent," says Albert. "We just need to do a flyover of <planet>, and see what our radar turns up."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Albert, John, and the mapping equipment hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Evade the ships that are chasing you and return to <destination>.
You cruise high above the surface of <origin> as John calibrates his instruments. "Sorry it's taking so long," he says, "there's some sort of glitch in the gravitational sensors, messing up my measurements."
	"What sort of glitch?" asks Albert.
	"Just a sensor artifact," he says, "some sort of echo. No, wait..." He trails off and starts turning dials on the instrument, then turns very pale.
	Albert looks over his shoulder at the monitor, but clearly doesn't understand what he's looking at. "What is it?" he asks.
	"It's not a sensor glitch," says John. "It's an artificial singularity."
	"Some sort of illegal research?"
	"A what?"
	"No, not illegal," says Albert. "No need to make laws against them, for the simple reason that no one knows how to make them. That's alien technology, very advanced."
	"A miniature black hole," says John. "An alien power source. Far more sophisticated than anything human beings have ever created. That is, unless someone in the Deep has found a way to reverse engineer alien technology."
	Suddenly, a warning light flashes on your ship's radar. Three ships have taken off from the planet's surface and are headed straight towards you. "Let's get out of here," says Albert. "Head back to <planet>!"
You breathe a sigh of relief as you land safely in the spaceport on <planet>. "Okay, what was that all about?" you ask.
	"I honestly don't know," says Albert. "I can tell you what I suspect, though. The history books don't actually say when the Deep was first settled. The first documented expedition to the Deep was in the 24th century, and they found several human colonies already established in the region, claiming to date back to the very dawn of space flight. But I think the first settlers were brought there long before that. Brought there on alien ships."
	"For what purpose?"
	"What aliens? The Quarg?"
	"Do you think it was the Pug?"
	"I'm not sure," he says. "But I first became interested in the Deep while researching the Alpha Wars. I'm sure you know the history, how humanity was nearly enslaved by psychopathic 'super' humans that we ourselves had created by dabbling in genetic engineering. At that time, the Deep made a sudden, improbable technological leap that allowed them to construct weapons and ships far more powerful than what the Alphas had, and the war against them was won."
	"There are popular folk tales in the Deep about 'elves,'" says Albert. "Thin, pale, graceful creatures, with blue blood."
	John frowns. "Hemocyanic blood. Not the Quarg, then. Their lungs are odd, but their blood uses hemoglobin for oxygen transport, just like ours."
	Albert and John give confused looks at each other for a second before Albert says, "The aliens that invaded human space?"
	John appears to think hard on the subject before saying, "That's certainly an interesting connection. I don't know how we didn't think of it. From the descriptions that I've heard about them, they almost exactly match the folk tales in the Deep about 'elves.'"
	"Thin, pale, and blue blooded, yes? Well, I think you may have figured something out, Captain <last>," replies Albert.
	"That's great, but what does it mean for us?"
	"From what I understand, they've been around for a while, and have mentioned past interference in the Deep."
	"Well then, if the Pug have admitted to 'interfering' with the Deep in the past then we have good reason to believe they fit into our current knowledge of the timeline here," Albert replies. "Unfortunately we can't just ask the Pug exactly what they've done or when they did it, but simply knowing of their presence here aids in our research."
	"Nothing immediately," says John, "but nevertheless, it is at least useful to know the timeline of events here."
	"Indeed," replies Albert, "simply knowing of their presence here aids in our research."
	Albert continues, "What I think is that an unknown alien species has been involved in events in the Deep since the beginning, and is perhaps still involved there today. I think this is known to at least some of the Deep's inhabitants."
	"So, what do we do now?"
	"How can we find out more information?"
	"Well," he says, "unfortunately, Captain, they're going to be watching you. I'll have to seek out someone else for the next stages of my research. But I will keep you notified if I discover anything further."
	It is an unsatisfactory conclusion to your work, with so many questions unanswered. But to make up for that, Albert gives you <payment> as payment for your services. "You will hear from me again," he promises.
As your ship drifts through the cloud of dust that surrounds Ildaria, it occurs to you that this must be the "cloudy star out along the Rim" that Ulrich from There Might Be Riots told you about. Remembering his story, you shut your eyes and attempt to meditate. But instead, you just fall asleep.
You dream that you leave this star system and return to Zug, but when you land there everything is different: the cities you remember are gone, and in their place are other cities with strange architecture, populated by gargantuan dragon-like creatures.
	Time speeds up, and you watch as the dragon cities grow and spread out. You see one city buried under a massive lava flow, starships buzzing around it like a cloud of flies to carry people and goods to safety. Other cities are destroyed by war, and then abruptly the dragon-people are all gone and their cities lie vacant. Buildings crumble, and the forests reclaim the land.
	Then you wake up and find yourself back in your ship, in the Ildaria system. Weird.
On a whim, as you're landing on Zug you pull up a geological map of the planet and find that the geography you dreamt of while drifting in the Ildaria system was surprisingly close to the real thing. There's even a massive basalt outcropping right where you saw a lava flow burying a city. There's no way your ship's sensors can tell what's underneath it, though.
Archaeology on <planet>
Bring the famous archaeologist Albert Foster to <destination> to look for signs of an ancient alien civilization.
This planet is where the archaeologist Albert Foster has his lab, the one who sent you on a mission to collect samples from a planet in the Deep. Would you like to try to convince him to look for signs of an ancient alien civilization in the Rim systems?
	(Of course!)
	(Not right now.)
Foster seems glad to see you. You do your best to pique his interest without saying anything that will make him think you're crazy, but he's clearly not buying it. "I'm sorry," he says, "but I'm not mounting an expedition just because you have a 'hunch.' So unless you're willing to tell me the source of your information, I'm not interested." He turns his attention back to the data pad that he was reading before you walked into his office.
	"I'd rather not say."
	"I had this dream about dragon-people on Zug."
	"I think a telepathic space alien spoke to me."
	"Then I'd rather not help you," he says, without looking up from the data pad.
	"You had a dream," he says. "Sorry, no. Oneirological archaeology is notoriously unreliable." From his tone of voice, you think he's being sarcastic.
	You expect him to laugh at you, but instead he's so shocked that he drops the data pad he's holding. "An Archon?" he says. "How the hell did you get tangled up with one of those?" You tell him the story, and he listens intently.
	"It's feasible," he says. "We've heard rumors from the Quarg that an alien civilization used to exist in the Rim, a hundred thousand years ago. No signs of it, of course - any artifacts they left behind have been destroyed by the elements, or perhaps intentionally removed. But if a city were encased in lava, that could preserve signs of it even over such a long time frame."
	Foster makes a few phone calls to cancel his upcoming plans, and then shows up at your ship with a large collection of geological surveying tools. "Let's go check it out," he says.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Albert hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You land your ship on the lava flow, and Albert Foster fires up his surveying equipment. "This will show me a density profile of different layers of rock beneath us," he says. As he gradually dials the instrument down to deeper and deeper layers, a few irregular white spots appear on the screen.
	"What are those?"
	(Be quiet and let him focus.)
	"Air pockets," he says, "some of them filled in with ground water. Nothing out of the ordinary."
	When the scan reaches about thirty meters below the surface, suddenly the view changes...
	"Great burning suns!" says Foster. "There is something down there! Roads in a triangular grid. That ain't no human city." You both stare at the monitor for a minute, then Foster says, "I'm going to need to pull some permits. Meet me in the spaceport in an hour if you're willing to help pick up some of the other stuff we'll need."
Archaeological Equipment
Fetch some excavation equipment from <destination>, and return with it to the dig site on Zug.
When you meet up with Foster, he tells you, "This is going to be tricky. We're going to have to dig through a twenty meter thick slab of solid basalt to get at those ruins. We have to work fast, or my competitors will catch wind of what we're doing and beat us to the punch. But we have to work delicately, too, or we'll damage what's underneath. Blasting won't work. I think some of the Syndicate's strip mining equipment could do the job, though. Would you be able to pick up maybe twenty or thirty tons of heavy machinery from <planet>?"
	"Sorry, I don't have time to help out anymore."
	He seems incredulous. "No time to participate in what could be one of the biggest discoveries of the last hundred years? You'll be well paid for your services too, if that's what's holding you back."
	"Okay, I'll pick up your equipment from <planet>."
	"Sorry, I'm just not interested."
Deliver this excavation equipment to <destination>.
You do not have enough cargo space to carry the equipment for Albert Foster's archaeological dig. Return here when you have at least 28 tons of space free.
When you arrive on <origin>, the excavation machines requested by Albert Foster are already waiting for you at the spaceport. They are some of the largest terrestrial vehicles you have ever seen: a truck with enormous toothed grinding wheels for cutting through stone, and a front-end loader for carrying the loose stone away. You are barely able to fit them through the entrance of your cargo bay.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the excavation equipment hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You drop off the excavation machines at the dig site on Zug, and receive your payment of three hundred thousand credits. Foster has already marked out lines of where he wants to dig and has completed a much more detailed geological scan. "We'll be starting with a narrow trench," he tells you, "and expanding out from there. It'll need to be wide enough to include a ramp for the vehicles, of course, so we'll still need to move a lot of rock. And when we get within the last five meters or so, I'm worried that the vibration from the grinders may be too destructive. So, I need some laser excavation equipment from <planet>, next."
	You agree to fetch the equipment, and he begins directing the work crews to get the digging started.
Deliver this excavation equipment to <destination>. Be sure that the ship "Oxyrhynchus" is not in the system when you land.
You do not have enough cargo space to carry the equipment for Albert Foster's archaeological dig. Return here when you have <capacity>.
Once again, the equipment that Foster needs is waiting for you when you land. It's a truck carrying a power generator and an articulated arm with a laser cannon mounted on the end. You can't help imagining what would happen if it malfunctioned and began firing while inside your cargo bay, but the engineer who delivers it assures you that it has many redundant safeties in place.
	Also waiting for you is an encrypted message from Foster: "Hi there, <first>. I've been told that one of my competitors, Sibyl Greythatch, has been asking around trying to figure out where my dig site is. She's an antiquities thief - robs archaeological sites and sells the artifacts on the black market. I think my equipment purchase on <origin> may have caught her attention. If so, her ship, the Oxyrhynchus, will be following you. Don't return to the dig site until you're certain you've shaken her."
As you are approaching Zug, you notice on your radar that the ship Foster warned you about has been following you: the Oxyrhynchus. You land in the main spaceport to avoid leading her to the dig site. You will need to shake her pursuit before delivering the equipment.
Transport a Xenobiologist
Travel to the Quarg station <destination>, and meet a xenobiologist who will help interpret the findings at Albert Foster's dig site.
When you return to the dig, Foster's trench is already almost ten meters deep. You tell him that you saw the Oxyrhynchus on your scanners, but you were able to evade it. "Good job," he says. "Now, we need a xenobiologist who can help us make sense of what we find. A friend of mine, Amelia Lee, has been living on the Quarg ringworld for the last decade or so, and she agreed to come visit the dig, and also to see what the Quarg can tell us about this old alien civilization. Also, here's your pay for transporting the laser cutter." He hands you another three hundred thousand credits.
	You agree to pick her up, and he returns to supervising the excavation.
Transport the xenobiologist Amelia Lee and her Quarg friend Yarthis to the dig site on Zug.
You will need <capacity> to transport the xenobiologist that Albert Foster asked you to fetch. Return here when you have space available.
Amelia Lee meets you at the spaceport, along with a Quarg who is a bit shorter than normal, but still tall enough to tower over you. "Captain <last>?" she says. "Let me introduce my friend Yarthis Amorthee Dek-Farsook Nai," she says. "Yarthis will be accompanying us to the site."
	"No problem. Welcome aboard!"
	"Do we really need to get the Quarg involved directly in this?"
	To your human eyes, unused to reading their expressions, the Quarg almost always seem grim and serious. But Yarthis seems particularly grave as it says, "You are digging in a graveyard, Captain. Someone must be present to see that the dead are given their due respect."
	As both of them board your ship, Amelia chats enthusiastically with you. "One ringworld can sustain a population in excess of a trillion," she says, "so the Quarg need long names in order to unambiguously identify themselves." She goes on to ask questions about the progress of the dig, using so much technical jargon that at times it almost sounds like she is speaking the Quarg language rather than your own. Clearly she is very knowledgeable about the study of alien societies, and you are surprised to learn that she was actually born in Hai space, as the granddaughter of some of the first humans who settled there.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Amelia and Yarthis hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Defend Zug
Drive off the pirates who are attacking Zug, or at least distract them for long enough for reinforcements to arrive.
Foster greets Amelia enthusiastically when you land, but seems less enthusiastic about having Yarthis here as well. The dig has nearly reached the target depth, and at the deepest part of the trench they are now slicing out blocks of stone with the laser and hoisting them out of the pit rather than just grinding through the rock. "Thanks again, Captain," he says, as he hands you a chip worth two hundred thousand credits.
	As Foster is showing the three of you around the dig, one of the workers runs up. "Mister Foster," he says, "there's a ton of traffic on the emergency militia channel. I think the planet is under attack."
	Foster swears and looks up at the sky as if expecting pirates to swoop down and steal his precious artifacts at any moment. "Captain <last>," he says, "We have to keep those pirates away from the dig at all costs, or they could destroy priceless information. Can you assist in defending the planet?"
	"My ship is not a warship."
	"Then just get up there and lead them around in circles until reinforcements arrive," he says. "I don't care how you do it, just keep whoever is up there occupied."
	As you run for your ship, you see Yarthis pull out some sort of communication device and speak into it. Perhaps the Quarg will be joining in this fight as well...
The last of the pirate raiders have been driven off. Time to land and check if any damage was done to the dig.
You try to land near the dig, but pirate ships are still circling nearby. Better deal with them before returning to check in on Foster.
A plume of smoke is rising from the dig site. Fearing the worst, you land and find out that a missile fired by one of the pirates destroyed one of the huts where the workers were living, but fortunately no one was inside it at the time. Foster is shaken but still committed to finishing the work. "It will be months before we've excavated enough to be able to publish any findings," he says, "but Yarthis has told me that the Quarg will be stationing a Wardragon here for the remainder of the project, to prevent any further foul play." Foster gives you one last payment: four hundred thousand credits for your help driving off the pirates. "And I'll be sure to give you credit for your help when the news goes public," he says.
Zug is a pleasant world of rolling hills, fertile fields, and a few small oceans. Hundreds of millions of people live here, with more immigrants arriving every day, almost faster than the construction industry can keep up with them. In addition to the larger cities, many people live in smaller farming villages, making this one of the few worlds in the region that is truly self-sufficient both in industry and in agriculture.
	The largest industry on Zug is Southbound Shipyards. However, in the wake of some extraordinary archaeological discoveries of a lost civilization, Zug has suddenly also become a popular destination for tourists.
Recent archaeological discoveries on Zug, a planet in the southern rim of human space, have turned up evidence of a lost alien civilization. The Quarg say that the ruins were left behind by a species called the Sheragi.
When you give your name to the spaceport traffic controller, he says, "Wait, you're Captain <first> <last>? You're all over the news right now!"
	You land and find that Albert Foster has published an initial report on the dig on Zug. The ruins under the lava flow did indeed turn out to be an alien city. The houses are built on a gargantuan scale, with most of the doorways at least ten meters tall. What's more, some of the buildings have no exterior doors on the street level, just doors facing balconies or inner courtyards, which supports the theory that the inhabitants were capable of flight. Most of the artifacts left behind are just everyday items, and in fact the technology seems less advanced than present human society, but scientists are studying the artifacts eagerly to glean hints about how these aliens lived.
	The Quarg, who at other times seem quite willing to share their knowledge with human beings, are being surprisingly reticent with information about this lost civilization. Aside from telling Foster that the aliens were known as the Sheragi, their only comments have been vague warnings that if human beings persist in developing weapons of war, they will end up like the Sheragi. From this, Foster has surmised that the alien civilization was most likely destroyed by a civil war, not by natural disaster or an attack by another species.
	It may not yield any great advances in human technology, but the dig will be providing clues to the history of the galaxy for years to come, and you can be proud to have played a part in that.
The Sheragi Bunker
Visit Albert Foster on <destination> to see what he has discovered.
You receive an encoded message from Albert Foster, the archaeologist who you helped to uncover the mysterious Sheragi ruins on Zug. He seems to be very excited.
	"<first>! Been a while, hasn't it? Remember the Sheragi dig site? We've just found something incredible here. Please, come visit me on Zug. I don't think I can trust anyone else with this."
The Mysterious Box
Take the mysterious box to a trusted scientist on <destination>.
You land at the dig site and notice that Albert was already waiting for you, watching your descent. He greets you as soon as the ship doors open.
	"Hello, <first>! Would you like to go on a little tour of the museum?"
	"Museum? What museum?"
	"Sure, I'm eager to see what you discovered."
	"Just tell me what's so important."
	"Didn't you know? There is a museum open within the dig site now, full of interesting artifacts. We turned it into quite the tourist trap. Here, follow me and I'll show you."
	You take the chance to catch up as he leads you into the ancient city's ruins, talking about the "minor" discoveries he has made so far, though he insists on keeping the reason he brought you here a surprise. He leads you to one of the Sheragi buildings that have been uncovered, skipping a long queue lined before the entrance to find that the room has been filled with various artifacts in display cases.
	It's strange to see so many technological devices as old as some of the prehistoric tools from ancient Earth, most of them so deteriorated you wouldn't even be able to imagine what they were used for if it wasn't for the descriptions next to their display cases. One of the most intact relics is a small metal statue of an individual Sheragi in flight like the dragons of Skymoot, possibly a trophy for some event, or perhaps a mere sculpture of a popular character of their time. It's impossible to know now, but one thing is certain: it's the most faithful representation available of what they looked like. The figure matches almost perfectly the ones you saw in your dream, back in Ildaria. As you turn your head to look at how tall the doors of this house are, then back at the statue again, you realize how big they must have been. It's hard to imagine the size their spaceships must have been to even hope to fit a creature this large.
	"This is an impressive collection."
	"It is! But it's not even the main attraction for you today. Follow me."
	After the tour is over, he leads you to another building in an area that is off-limits to the general public.
	"Straight to the point? Fair enough, I'm eager as well, but do come visit the museum some time in the future. There are so many interesting objects."
	You take the chance to catch up as he leads you into the ancient city's ruins, talking about the "minor" discoveries he made so far, such as statues of Sheragi that depict what they once looked like. "We would perhaps never know their appearance had we not found something like it. But these small discoveries are not the main attraction for you today," Albert says with a wide smile. He leads you into one of the uncovered Sheragi buildings, in an area that is off-limits to the public.
	"Here it is!"
	There is a tunnel going deep underground inside the room, but Albert sets his attention on a large safe instead. As he opens it up, he begins to explain the situation.
	"So, from what we know, the Sheragi died off in a war of catastrophic proportions. One of our interns suggested we survey deeper underground, to check for military facilities or bunkers, even though our previous scans didn't show anything interesting, so we allowed her to play around with the ground-penetrating radar. And wouldn't you believe it, there were some angled pieces of metal under the dirt. Clearly man-made. Well... Sheragi-made, in this case. So we dug deeper, and found what we can only assume to have been a bunker, showing signs of having been hit by a powerful kinetic weapon. Despite the damage, we could still salvage some artifacts from the debris. Particularly, this thing."
	Albert opens the safe and shows you a weathered, red metal cube, around half a meter on each side. He struggles with the weight, but manages to set it down on the floor.
	"This appears to be a data storage device of some sort. It was connected to what we think were once computers, but nothing else was salvageable after spending thousands of years under the wet soil. Based on how sturdy this thing is, it's plausible that some of the data could have survived, like a time capsule.
	"I have a contact back on Vinci who could probably figure this out, and this is where you come in. You remember John, right? I can't leave the dig site, but I also don't have anyone else I could trust to carry such a valuable artifact. Will you take it there for me?"
	"Sure, I'll take the cube to him."
	"Who's John again?"
	"I'm sorry, but that sounds sketchier than all the other jobs I did for you. The Quarg were very clear in saying that some things are not meant to be found."
	"Oh, you don't remember him? He's the scientist who worked with us when we were investigating the church on Midgard. He has all the fancy equipment needed to look into this cube."
	"What?" He seems incredulous. "After going this far, you're abandoning me? Knowledge by itself isn't dangerous. This cube could be the key to lost eons of history, to secrets of the Sheragi we couldn't even dream of!"
	"All right, I'll take it to him."
	"Sorry, but I'm not crossing that line."
	"Splendid!"
	The two of you put the cube in an inconspicuous backpack and carry it back to your ship. Albert gives you an address where you'll deliver the cube, mentions that you will be paid after transporting it, and wishes you good luck on your travel.
You arrive on Vinci and carry the cube to the address Foster gave you. You find that John has been waiting for you. "So, Foster is up to no good again, huh?" He laughs as he lets you into his lab.
	"It doesn't seem likely that we'll get in trouble this time."
	"I'm slightly concerned myself, but I'm sure he knows what he's doing."
	You set the backpack with the cube down on a table and open it up.
	"Well, he's paying me to help with this, so no problem with me. It's not like everyone gets to see the exotic things he finds first hand. I mean, an artificial singularity..." he trails off, reminiscing about the adventure the three of you had in the Deep.
	John proceeds to examine the cube. He's strong enough to pick it up with no problems and look at it from different angles, trying to find some port to connect to. He finds one, but it's so deteriorated that any attempts to use it would be fruitless. He places the cube inside a machine to take a deeper scan of the object, and watches it silently working, staring patiently at the screen.
	"Yes, this seems to be a data storage device of some sort... it's made to be sturdy, like a black box, so it's plausible that we could recover some data from it. This is going to take a very long time, though."
	"How long?" you ask.
	"A couple months, probably. It depends on how alien this thing is, and if it's encrypted or not, but I should at least figure out if there is any recoverable data in here by then."
	John says he'll drop you a message once his results come out, and you part ways and return to your ship.
The Information Dealer
Discover the whereabouts of the box from an information broker on the pirate world of <destination>.
You receive an urgent call from John, who has been working on the mysterious Sheragi black box for about a month now.
	"Captain <last>! I have some bad news and some worse news. Which one do you want to hear first?"
	"The bad news."
	"The worse news."
	"The bad news is that this is a lot more complicated than I thought. I found out that the data in the box has survived, and can still be recovered after all this time, but it will need some specialized hardware and knowledge that we don't have yet."
	"And the worse news?" you ask.
	"Well... Some people invaded my lab during the night and stole a lot of the things I was working on. Thankfully my insurance covers most of it, and I still have most of my heavy expensive equipment, but the box... it's gone."
	"Well... Some people invaded my lab during the night, and stole a lot of the things I was working on. Thankfully my insurance covers most of it, and I still have most of my heavy expensive equipment, but the box... it's gone."
	"And the bad news?" you ask
	"The less bad news is that this is a lot more complicated than I thought. I found out that the data in the box has survived, and can still be recovered after all this time, but it will need some specialized hardware and knowledge that we don't have yet."
	Your heart sinks. "What do we do now? Do you have any idea where to find the box? Did you contact law enforcement?"
	"I did what I could, but if this was mandated as I suspect, the police aren't going to help, and the box is probably off-world by now. However... if you have some cash on hand, and you're willing to go the extra mile to recover the box, there might be a way."
	"What do you mean?"
	"Are you trying to extort me?"
	"What? No, of course not! Do you think I would steal my own work? Let me explain.
	"Albert's methods are... nonstandard, to say the least, and we've dealt with a certain individual once. An information dealer who lives on Stormhold. Sketchy person, seems to have informants nearly everywhere and knows about everything. The individual in question is known as Mammon. If you want to find the box, dealing with Mammon is probably your best bet."
	"Thank you, I'll see if I can find this Mammon person."
	"I'm sorry, but I think nothing good can come out of this. Better to forget about the cube."
	"Knowing their methods, they'll likely find you first. But don't be alarmed, they're not... evil, per se. Just be careful, alright?"
The Search for the Artifact
Confront the mercenaries who stole the cube on <destination>.
Despite the obvious hostility the locals display towards you, you've safely entered Stormhold's atmosphere. You're still halfway through the descent when a robotic, modulated voice hails you.
	"I heard you were looking for me, <first> <last>," the person on the other end says.
	"Who are you? How do you know my name?"
	"You did? How?"
	"In my line of business, I have to know everything. That includes the identities of any potential clients, such as yourself. How else would you hope to find me?
	The mysterious person laughs.
	"It looks like I know you more than you know yourself. I am who you're looking for, of course.
	"Mammon, information vendor. At your service," the voice states ominously. "Come meet me in person to discuss the specifics of what you're looking for." The connection cuts and you receive coordinates to land in a seemingly random location that appears to be in the middle of the sea.
	You arrive at the coordinates in the middle of nowhere under stormy conditions. You begin to question whether you received the correct coordinates until a massive submarine emerges from the waves. It is a gargantuan vessel, and as lights guide you to land on its deck, you notice that despite the size of your ship, it comfortably fits on the deck, where it is automatically secured in place by magnetic locks. Armed men in business suits surround your ship, and once you disembark, two of them guide you inside. You're led into a dimly lit room with a holographic map of the galaxy on the ceiling and a desk, behind which a hooded figure sits.
	"There we are, away from prying eyes. Please, take a seat," they say. Their voice has a strange tone with no distinguishable gender, with a sibilating, guttural accent, and it's not until you sit down that you notice a reptilian snout poking out of the hood. You don't know whether this is natural or an extreme body modification.
	"Are you a..."
	(Say nothing.)
	They cut you off, grinning. "Forget it. You'd need to steal whole planets for that information."
	"Let's get to what matters. You want to find that alien artifact, yes?" You nod in response. "I have the information you need. Finding lost objects is the most trivial of my services, but as with everything, it has a price.
	"Ten million credits," they say. "Non-negotiable. And don't try anything funny."
credits
	"What? I don't have that much money!"
	"That's expensive. If it's such a trivial service, can't I have a discount?"
You come back to Stormhold and receive new coordinates to meet with Mammon. Would you like to visit them?
	(Yes.)
	(No.)
	You follow the new coordinates, arriving again in a random place in the sea, again under stormy conditions, which seems to be the norm on this planet. The submarine emerges, you land, and follow the men to Mammon's room once again.
	"Welcome back," they say.
	"I hope you are ready to make your payment."
	"You should know that I don't have that much money to spare."
	"Are you ready to give me a discount?"
	"How about you tell me what I want and I don't blow up your ship and your pirate friends?"
	"I need to think about this. Give me some time."
	"That's a lot of money just for information. Can you make it cheaper?"
	"Here's the money."
	"I know you don't. I can arrange for the payment to be made in different ways. Organ donation, prostitution, volunteering as a test subject... We'll need an appraisal first, though."
	You politely decline.
	"Come back to me when you have it, then, and I shall provide you with the information. We have all the time in the universe. Until you die, or someone decides to destroy the cube, that is."
	"Come back when you're ready, then. We have all the time in the universe. Until you die, or someone decides to destroy the cube, that is. It's all up to you."
	They gesture, and the men promptly and diligently escort you back out to your ship.
	Mammon doesn't look pleased.
	"What part of non-negotiable did you not understand? You're pushing your luck, Captain <last>. I didn't expect you to be such a petty money pincher."
	Mammon just smiles, displaying sharp teeth and licking them with a forked tongue, more entertained than intimidated.
	"Really? You think you can intimidate me? It's your funeral, human. If you were smart, you would know that my power far exceeds yours, especially in my own home. You know I can't let you leave here alive now. It would set a bad precedent for me. Safety is my top priority."
	You look around, and the men in suits are pointing guns at you. Alien guns. Before you can react, Mammon shoots you from under the table, fatally injuring your abdomen. Your half conscious body is dragged out of the submarine, and your ship being shredded to pieces by alien weapons is the last thing you see.
	You slide the credit chips to Mammon, but they decline it, grinning with their sharp teeth.
	"Don't worry about paying right now. I only needed you to agree to the deal. I will withdraw the credits in the future, when I desire.
	"Now that we're done with that, the artifact you're looking for has been taken by some mercenaries. It seems to me that your friend messed with the wrong people, but I digress. That is not the information you paid for."
	Mammon lifts their hands to the holographic map of the galaxy in the ceiling. It zooms in, filling up the entire room with stars. In front of you, you recognize the border between the Deep and the Dirt Belt.
	"They have kept the artifact for themselves to sell on the black market, and their base of operations is right... here. Algieba."
	The hologram zooms further in on Watcher, one of the system's moons, and continues until it finally stops over a large forest.
	"You will find them on this uninhabited moon. They are hiding out in this forest, and the artifact is with them. The exact coordinates will be forwarded to your ship. Expect hostilities."
	You thank Mammon for the service and get up to leave.
	"See you, Captain <last>. Remember I always do."
You receive a message informing you of a very large transaction: 10 million credits. With it, a message containing only the image of a reptilian eye logo. It seems Mammon's crew have withdrawn the money you agreed to pay for the information about the Sheragi black box.
The Fight for the Artifact
Destroy the mercenary fleet, then land on <planet>.
You arrive at the uninhabited moon of Watcher and scout the area around the coordinates Mammon sent you. It's relatively easy to find some smoke rising from a campfire in a clearing, but as you approach to investigate, you're surprised by several large ships taking off to greet you, ditching the green tarps used to hide among the trees. It looks like they really don't want you here.
You managed to defeat the entire mercenary fleet. You should have no problem landing in their camp now and recovering the cube.
You attempt to evade the mercenary ships and make a quick assault on their encampment, but the ships follow you through the atmosphere, and ground personnel start shooting at you. Bombing it on a pass means you risk destroying the cube. You have no choice but to go back to space and eliminate the mercenary fleet.
You come in for a landing, and the few mercenaries that stayed on the ground march towards your ship carrying a makeshift white flag. Dozens of tough-looking men and women approach in uniform but unarmed. They remain calm and organized. These aren't ordinary criminals, it seems.
	"We know when we've lost," one of them yells to your ship on a megaphone. "What is it that you want?"
	(Shoot them.)
	(Talk to them.)
	You land and cautiously open the hatch to talk with them.
	"Who do you work for? Where is the cube you stole?" you ask.
	"So that old thing was yours?" one woman up front says. "I knew that mission was sketchy... We're mercenaries. We were employed by fancy-looking people who paid us really well to steal it, but when we returned with it, they just scanned it and told us to dispose of it. Said that a digital copy is fine, and the trouble should be enough retribution. We don't know who they were, we don't ask questions. That might be about to change now.
	"If you want the cube, you can have it if you spare us. It's not worth our lives."
	(Spare them.)
	(Open fire.)
	Feeling distrustful, you immediately close the hatch and get back into your ship while they scatter.
	Disregarding their surrender, you turn your ship towards them and open fire on the small army. Using your ship-mounted guns against ground personnel is honestly excessive, and they didn't stand a chance. There is now a smoldering clearing around the place where they once stood, and a forest fire is beginning to spread.
	You enter the camp, shooting any mercenaries that remained hidden, and pillage their tents. You find hundreds of thousands of credits, in chips and valuables, and eventually, you find the cube as well. With that in hand, you go back to your ship, ready to take it back to John.
	"Deal. Bring it to me," you say.
	While one of them goes to fetch it, you wait in an uncomfortable silence, watching their every move while they watch yours. Eventually the young man who left to get the cube comes back and gives it to you. You examine it, confirming it is the artifact you were looking for.
	"You have it, now go away. We won't get in your way again," the woman who spoke before says, and the other mercenaries begin to disband, going back to their tents.
	With the cube in your arms, you have no more reason to stay here. You go back to your ship, ready to take it back to John.
The Box Recovered
Bring the cube back to John on <destination>.
Carrying the mysterious box again, you make your way to John's lab. He lets you in, and you tell him about what you just went through.
	"So, retribution, huh? You think it was the officials from the Deep that got angry at us last time? Or maybe Foster's competitors for that dig site? I should have seen that coming."
	"Possibly," you say. "I can't imagine any other reason."
	"At least you got it back. But I don't know if it would be wise to continue to work on it here, and I can't just leave the planet for a couple months with no consequences. I don't even have a clue on how to read that data yet."
	"And what, do you happen to have another shady contact who can help?" you ask.
	"Unfortunately not. And now we seem to be running against time. If only the Quarg would be willing to work with us and give us the information we need to crack this box..."
	As soon as you hear that phrase, it suddenly hits you. You've met the Hai up north, and you heard from the Unfettered that they've met the Sheragi many millennia ago. Perhaps the Hai could be able to help.
	"I think I know what to do. You're not the only person with contacts in strange places."
	You pick up your things, placing the cube back inside the backpack.
	"Well, I wish I could study it longer, but if you have a lead, it's worth pursuing. I trust you'll return the cube to either myself or Albert once you're done with it. Good luck, Captain. Don't get in too much trouble."
Hai Knowledge
Ask the Hai if they know more about the Sheragi.
The Museum of Galactic History
Travel to <destination> to visit the Hai Museum of Galactic History.
You ask around the spaceport until you manage to find a Hai tourist guide. You ask him if there's any place where you could find more information about the Sheragi.
	"A human knows about them? I'm surprised. This is ancient history. If there's any place where you can find out more about them, it's the Museum of Galactic History on <planet>."
	You thank the guide and return to your ship, plotting a course to the <system> system.
The Hai Ministry of Culture
Land on <destination> to speak with the Ministry of Culture.
Arriving on Mirrorlake, you ask around for a while, and eventually, someone directs you to the Museum of Galactic History: a huge, and very important place, but surprisingly not a very popular tourist spot. Most Hai aren't very fond of looking at the past, and most humans have no idea this place exists. The museum staff is surprised to see a human face, and as you wander you feel like you're drawing more attention from the locals than the exhibits themselves.
	The place has a very unusual architecture vaguely resembling Earth's Ancient Greece, but clearly not based on any human design. Touches of metal, concrete, glass, and plastic add a modern aspect to its design. Exhibit rooms branch off a long corridor that makes up the majority of the building. The rooms are arranged such that history proceeds backwards as you walk through the museum, with recent events at the front and the earliest at the back.
	One room you enter is dominated by a mural depicting the Hai's history of contact with humanity. What jumps out to you is that the first humans in the mural are shown with green skin. The only green skinned humans you know of are the Alphas. The mural seems to show the Alphas stealing something from the Hai, followed by a series of battles, at the end of which the Alphas are shown retreating into the wormhole. Ships then come back through the wormhole, only this time carrying normal humans. The Hai in the mural appear apprehensive at first, but it is clear that a friendship was quickly established.
	It is surprising and unfortunate to learn that the first contact the Hai ever had with humanity was with the Alphas.
	One room you enter is dominated by a mural depicting the Hai's history of contact with humanity. It begins with the Alphas, just as Ambassador Hiyamaharu told you about. The mural seems to show the Alphas stealing something from the Hai, followed by a series of battles, at the end of which the Alphas are shown retreating into the wormhole. Ships then come back through the wormhole, only this time carrying normal humans. The Hai in the mural appear apprehensive at first, but it is clear that a friendship was quickly established.
	As you continue to wander further down the aisle, you find rooms dedicated to the Korath raids, their civil war, and the first contact with them, along with a very poetic recounting of the origins of the Unfettered. Going deeper, you find even more sections: a long one detailing Hai culture on several different worlds and how they shifted with time, another on the fall of the Hai government that once inhabited part of what is now human space and the decision to pull back into a small territory, one on the completion of the Quarg ringworld, one for Hai trade and military culture during their imperial phase, and a very grim-looking room on the Hai Civil Wars. Finally, after a very long walk, you arrive at a room nearly at the end of the aisle, recounting the history of the Sheragi.
	(Continue into the Sheragi room.)
	What you see here is much richer than what Albert Foster's little museum could ever hope to display. There are pictures of Sheragi military officials of the time, as well as their names and roles. Details on their culture, their biology, and their apparent conflicts with the Hai are provided as well. There is a huge statue of a bipedal dragon at the center of the room, around 8 meters tall, so large that the ceiling had to be raised. The inscription on the plaque at its feet indicates it is a reproduction of a life-sized Sheragi. A smaller interactive holographic display of one shows details on their biology and behavior. Samples of culture are scarce, but it indicates that they lived under a military meritocracy that valued strength and leadership above all else.
	You see pictures and rough blueprints of their ships, some depicting fearsome fleets of massive warships. They had angular, multi-layered armor that rivaled the strength of modern Hai vessels by sheer mass. If your measurement conversions are correct, their ships were bigger than anything else in human space, dwarfing even the Navy Carrier. A few of them display equally impressive spinal cannons of unknown capability, with grim descriptions suggesting that they were responsible for the extinction of the Sheragi - weapons of mass destruction in the hands of a warlike and immature species that used them carelessly.
	While you are looking around the room, one of the curators approaches you, speaking your own language, albeit with a heavy accent.
	"Sad, isn't it? I don't think they ever had a peaceful time in their spacefaring history."
	"It's a pity they had to focus so much on conflict. They seemed very capable."
	"They lived fast, died young, and left good-looking corpses."
	"Well, it's not like we are ones to talk. At the time, we Hai were a troubled species too. We even tried invading Sheragi territory. Perhaps if we had been successful, they might have united against a common enemy and might have even survived their rebellious phase, at our own expense.
	The curator laughs in the distinctive Hai way.
	"That's one way to put it. I can't deny the scale of their engineering was a marvel even for the Hai of that time, and our civilization was already old. Some things scale well with size, and they had no choice but to build big. But it's still a shame. Imagine such capability being used for peace.
	"Anyway, it's rare to see a human face here, and even more intriguing for them to be staring at Sheragi artifacts. What brings you here?"
	You explain about the ruins recently discovered on Zug.
	"Ohhh, right. They used to inhabit the part of human space that is now called the Rim. Are you looking for anything in particular?"
	"I would like to know more about Sheragi computers," you respond.
	"Hmmm, computers. The Sheragi built their hardware to last. Very sturdy electronics with redundancies, designed to be able to take a shot and survive. But still, I doubt they would have survived so many thousand years. If you want to identify how their hardware used to work, there are a few documents and manuals the ancient Hai stole from them."
	"Are they for sale?" you inquire.
	"You want to buy a copy of the documents? Right now? I'm intrigued. Did you actually find something that still works?"
	"We found a kind of storage device that seems to still be functioning. A black box."
	"I'm just curious. Studying their technology might allow us to improve ours."
	"I see. I'll have to warn you though, following the footsteps of a doomed species can only get you so far.
	"A Sheragi black box? That's an incredible find! Be careful about the information it contains, though. They are a doomed species. Don't you humans have a legend about a cursed box? What was it... Pandora's Box?
	"In any case... I am not authorized to sell you documents, I just take care of artifacts here. Giving Sheragi technology to humans will likely be a very bureaucratic process. I suggest you contact the Ministry of Culture on Hai-home."
	You thank him for his help, and make your way back to the spaceport, mentally preparing yourself for what is likely to be a long meeting.
Arriving on Hai-home, you manage to contact the Ministry of Culture, expressing your interests in obtaining Sheragi documents and manuals. After some time on hold, you're scheduled to meet them in person.
	You get ready and make your way to the city hall, where the Ministry is, to meet with the Hai officials, who are accompanied by a few diplomats. You all sit down at a round table. You describe the discovery of the Sheragi ruins to them and they begin inquiring more about it, curious about the state of preservation of the ruins and what artifacts were found. They seem very excited.
	"This is a unique opportunity! Even when our species were in... active contact, millennia ago, we Hai never had the opportunity to study Sheragi cities up close. Brief skirmishes and diplomatic meetings were as close as our ancestors got.
	"You'll understand, however, that we can't simply sell you the documents you're requesting. Instead, we have a proposition for you: cooperation between our species, so both Hai and human can mutually benefit in ways more significant than the financial one."
	Given this opportunity, you tell them about the Sheragi black box found in the dig site, and the possibility of decrypting it and uncovering its secrets.
	"With the proper tools, we could decode it. But in return, we'd like to have a copy of the contents as well, and to learn more about your findings."
	"Wait, can't I just pay for some help?"
	"Sounds fair to me."
	"This is an excellent opportunity for us to learn as well, Captain <last>. We're not going to take anything from you, but rather, it's a mutual benefit."
	You ponder your choices for a moment. There is no way you could solve this puzzle without their help. You've gone this far, so you agree.
	"Excellent!" the Hai exclaims.
	They chat with you a bit more, and the diplomatic leader excuses himself for a moment to make a call. A moment later he returns.
	"We have arranged for a very capable team of archaeologists to meet you in the spaceport in a few hours. They specialize in Sheragi artifacts. I would advise you to make room for three passengers and some cargo for their equipment."
	You thank them for their help and leave the building, ready to meet your new team in the spaceport.
Assembling the Team
Take the Hai archaeologists to meet Albert Foster on <destination>.
You arrive at the spaceport, but then you realize your ships don't have enough free bunks or cargo space required to bring the archaeologist team with you. You manage to contact them, and in an embarrassing conversation ask them to wait for you while you make sure you're ready.
You meet up with the Hai archaeologists that will accompany you to human space, an all female team. They introduce themselves to you as Eyama, Rakei, and Desyo.
	Eyama is a linguist specializing in the Sheragi language. She playfully greets you in the dragons' rather guttural tongue, with strange tones.
	Rakei is an archaeological engineer, who immediately takes a liking to the cube as soon as she sees it, examining its structure.
	Finally, Desyo is a xenoprogramming expert who studies alien software, and seemingly has a lot of experience with Sheragi code. Apparently, the displays of the Sheragi room of the museum all run in this exotic language, unseen by the public.
	After the brief introduction, they each take their equipment and load it into the cargo bay of your ship. Rakei approaches you after everything is in place.
	"We want to meet the human archaeologist who uncovered the ruins in the Rim. Can you take us there? We will start examining the cube along the way. I think by the time we get there, we'll have something to work with."
A brilliant Hai xenoprogramming expert, Desyo specializes in Sheragi code and software. She is more interested in technology and electronics than people and often coordinates the work in the Hai archaeologist team, despite her introversion and lack of hierarchy. Her dedication is the grease that keeps that machine running.
Rakei is an engineering expert specializing in archaeological artifacts, but also very interested in new and unusual technology, often nerding out with Desyo over the latest scientific papers. She is part of the Hai archaeologist team tasked to uncover the mystery of the Sheragi black box.
Uncaring about formalities and seriousness, you wouldn't guess Eyama is an accomplished linguist specializing in Sheragi language. She also has an interest in culture and sociology in general, and has a lot more knowledge about human culture than you would expect from a Hai, or even most humans. Her work with the Hai archaeologist team is invaluable to deciphering Sheragi mysteries and maintaining their relationship with human partners.
It was a long trip, almost halfway across the galaxy. The Hai archaeologists have been quite friendly and amiable, giving you updates every time they made a new breakthrough. During this time, the cube, previously thought to be impenetrable, had been disassembled and cleaned. Components that decayed into a mess of oxidized wires and goopy paste over the eons have been identified and removed to substitute for equivalent ones, and a blueprint of the box and its circuits has started to take shape.
	As soon as you land, you call Albert Foster, who doesn't believe you when you say you've gotten alien archaeologists to help. You then look for the three Hai to figure out how they're going to go unnoticed on a human world. You're surprised to find Eyama wearing long, dark but colorful human clothing with an equally oversized hoodie and a bandanna. You recognize this outfit, very popular with the youth these days, who are generally regarded as delinquents by the previous generation. Additionally, she's carrying two more sets for her Hai partners as well. It hides her body really well at the cost of making her look like a young boy, and the Hai's relatively short stature doesn't help.
	"Call me Miss Deus ex Machina, because I thought ahead and bought these from a merchant back home. Perfect disguises. The humans will never notice. How do I look?"
	"That's... clever. It hides you well."
	"Well, it works, but you look like a child."
	"Right? I can even hide my tail in the back of the hoodie!" She spins around happily.
	"That's not that bad, is it? I always considered myself young at heart, anyway!" she giggles a little.
	"Anyway, can you take us to Mr. Foster's museum? We'll take the cube and fill him in on the details."
	You agree, and after they're all ready, you make your way out to the dig site. Surprisingly, the three Hai don't get many weird looks if they walk a bit further behind you. You arrive at the museum and they immediately break character by being very obviously excited to see the exhibits. This probably comes as a relief to onlookers, however, who would normally expect that type of kid to vandalize priceless artifacts.
	Finally, you arrive at Albert's workshop. He stops brushing layers of hardened soil off of an object that looks like it was once a television, and looks startled at you and the three "kids." The Hai take off their hoods and bandannas, causing his jaw to nearly drop to the floor.
	"I'll be damned. The Hai really exist!" he exclaims.
	"Of course we do," Eyama laughs. "Haven't you heard all the stories?"
	"I had my doubts. Merchants are not usually the most reputable sources." He smiles. "I'm Albert Foster, archaeologist, pleased to meet you all."
	They introduce themselves, and very soon the conversation evolves to a kind of jargon even Albert has trouble following. They talk about the box and their findings, while Albert talks about the history uncovered in the dig site and insights on the Sheragi daily life and culture. You close the door to make sure nobody else is listening in.
	"We've managed to open the box and we're making a blueprint of it," says Desyo. "Once that's done, we might be able to rebuild the broken pieces and recover the data. We already have documentation on how their hardware worked."
	"The catch is that this is a collaboration now. We'll help you, if you share your findings with us," Rakei continues.
	"Sounds like a fair deal to me," Albert says. "We'll arrange the details later. <first>, thank you so much for your help. We'll continue studying this artifact, and we'll send you a message when we're done."
	You say goodbye to Albert, Rakei, Eyama, and Desyo, and make your way back to your ship. However, as you're walking back to the ship, you feel a heavy hand on your shoulder. You look back, and you're startled to see a Quarg. It's Yarthis, who came to this system to watch over the Sheragi dig site.
	"I wasn't expecting to see you here."
	"Can I help you?"
	"It has come to my attention that your friends have found a Sheragi black box, and kept it a secret. I am well aware your species view us with distrust, but please understand we only work to prevent extinction. I've been told not to interfere, but I must advise you to be careful with its contents. You will be led to more memories of the Sheragi, and a glimpse at their destruction. But what you find should be seen as nothing more than an oddity, not something to replicate or imitate."
	It turns around and leaves you without another word.
Black Box Decoded
Visit Albert Foster on Zug.
You're still in the middle of the post-flight check when you receive a new encoded message from Albert Foster.
	"Hello <first>. I have some good news! We have decoded what's in the black box. You should come visit us on Zug; we have plenty to tell you!"
The Emerald Sword
Bring an additional jump drive to Zug.
You arrive on Zug, and after contacting Albert and the three Hai archaeologists and following their directions, you find them in an ice cream shop. They're still wearing the youngster clothes, but not even bothering to hide their faces with bandannas anymore. Surprisingly, nobody seems too distressed at the sight. Rakei waves for you and stands up, coming to you with ice creams in paw.
	"Hello <first>! It seems our disguise worked better than intended. The humans around here think we're wearing a costume. Apparently young humans like to dress up as aliens?" she says confusedly.
	"I had a feeling we'd fit right in with the furry crowd," Eyama responds proudly.
	"It has been an interesting cultural exchange. Human space might be a great vacation spot for us. But we're not on vacation yet. We have a mystery to solve," she continues.
	You sit down with your group on a bench in a nearby park, mostly empty, and Desyo picks up the conversation.
	"So, the files in the black box were thankfully standard for Sheragi. Not very difficult to decode, once we managed to read them."
	"What did it contain?"
	Desyo responds, "It was all fleet movement data and military strategy details. This system was apparently on the border of one of the factions' territories. On the final moments of the recording, a large transport fleet had entered the system, unarmed ships. They were followed by military vessels in pursuit. There's no telling what they thought at the time, but a military fleet was immediately dispatched to eliminate both fleets. One particular ship, the name of which Eyama has translated as 'Emerald Sword,' started behaving erratically when given orders. It fired and missed a few shots until it eventually stopped and fled. Clear signs of a mutiny. However, what is perhaps most interesting is that when it fled, it fled in an unexpected direction, away from any hyperlanes."
	Albert continues, "We think they wanted to flee from the fighting. These were soldiers scarred by the horrors of the war, and they just got ordered to attack what we assume to be refugees. The Emerald Sword was a big ship, likely with an equally large crew, and from the movement data, its engines were very powerful too, possibly capable of crossing interstellar distances within a Sheragi lifetime. This has some interesting implications. The ship was moving precisely towards a star named Zubenelhakrabi. Not significant enough to show up in the star maps, but we did our survey, and there is a potentially habitable planet there, but zero signs of intelligent life. We think they failed in colonizing it, but the ship might still be there. It's a priceless artifact. We can't know for sure until we get there. Thing is, there is no way to do so."
	"Unless you have a jump drive," Rakei adds. "And you do have one, don't you?"
	"I do."
	"I used to, but not anymore."
	"This is perfect! Do you think you can get another one? If we're going there, and the ship's remains are still there, we're going to need one to install on the Emerald Sword and bring it back home."
	"You sold it?" she replies incredulously. "How can you sell such a priceless piece of technology? Well, I hope there is a way to get more of them without having one, because we're going to need two for the next stage. One for your ship, and another one for the Emerald Sword, if its remains are still there."
	"What do I get in return?" you ask.
	"Fame and fortune, my friend. And if the ship is still there, I think you deserve to keep it," Albert responds. "You've helped me so much, and you went to hell and back to get this black box decoded. Give us some time to assemble a crew to survey the system and help refurbish the ship, and in the meantime, go get us a jump drive. Come back to us once you have it."
	"You're just going to let me have it? Isn't this something of a priceless historical artifact?"
	"Thank you."
	Albert responds, "Well, yes, but I'd feel much more comfortable with it in your hands than sitting here on <origin> waiting to be destroyed in loose fire during a pirate raid. Besides that though, while the Free Worlds work hard and have a stronger presence here than the Navy ever did, they can't stop everyone who may have an interest in this ship. At least with you it's a moving target."
Search for the Emerald Sword.
You arrive to make the preparations to jump to Zubenelhakrabi, but Albert stops you. "Captain, the Emerald Sword is an alien ship, and we have no idea how many people we will need to man it, so I've taken the liberty of hiring some extra crew on top of the specialist team. We're going to need 150 additional crew to help, including us, and 50 tons of cargo to take our materials and the spare jump drive."
You have a spare jump drive in your possession. Would you like to give it to Albert's crew?
	You give Albert a call, and arrange to meet with him to plan the next step. He shows up at your ship, greets you, and starts loading in some equipment, along with the jump drive you brought. He has assembled a crew of around 150 people, including a specialized team of shipyard workers, a large amount of veteran crew members, himself, and the three Hai archaeologists, who are comfortable to let go of their disguise once they're back in your ship.
	"<first>, meet the people who will help us uncover the fate of the Emerald Sword. I've just briefed them on the situation and what we plan to do. Along with the jump drive, we're going to take some specialized tools with us, which should allow us to repair and outfit the ship in any world we can land on. This might look like a lot of people, but if we want to recover a derelict ship, I suspect we'll need just this many. If you're ready to go, here are the coordinates to Zubenelhakrabi."
	You thank Albert, and make your preparations for the voyage into the unknown.
The trip to Zubenelhakrabi is completely normal and calm. When you arrive, a simple scan reveals the system's star is unremarkable, nearing the end of its main sequence phase. Among the planets orbiting it, one is in the habitable zone and shows apparent signs of life, covered in dark green spots under the clouds.
	You also find the Emerald Sword, but strangely, it is not on the planet, but drifting through space. An enormous ship of angular design, its most striking feature is an incredibly large cannon going through the center of the ship. It is so large the ship might as well have been built around it; you can only wonder about its power. Thankfully, you won't have to find out the hard way; the ship is inert, derelict, ruined from lack of maintenance, and abandoned to the mercy of micrometeorite showers and decay. It seems like it could fall apart if looked at the wrong way... luckily, you have just the right crew for the job.
	But before you can initiate the approach to the ship, a strange feeling washes over you. First, a feeling of being watched by something far greater. Then, a void in your chest, a deep apprehension you can't shake. A thought forms in your mind, but it's not your own:
	"You have arrived, human. This was the Sheragi's last stand before their extinction. You would do well not to disturb this place of remembrance." A strong shiver washes over you as the thoughts of "extinction" and "remembrance" are punctuated by an indescribable feeling. As if there is a cold deep within your bones.
	"Who are you?"
	"What... What is this feeling?"
	There is a pause. The feeling of being watched becomes intense, as if you're being studied intently.
	"A human would call it... dread. Regret. Loss. You are standing in the last untouched graveyard of a lost civilization.
	"I am the guardian of this site. I am also the one who guided you towards the buried city, so your species would bear witness and take heed of the lessons of ones who have long succumbed to their own folly. I did not intend for you to reach this far.
	"Here is where the Sheragi came to an end. The tools that drove them to extinction are long gone. We witnessed as they cast those tools into the heart of this star."
	"You mean this ship? Its weapons systems seem to be intact."
	"What tools?"
	"Ones capable of crippling an entire world's worth of life."
	"That ship is just a relic, its weapons a mere trinket. The weapon that perished the Sheragi was indiscriminate. An irrational decision they made for themselves, failing to judge the risk."
	As that is said, you're overcome by glimpses of memories that are not yours, not clear enough for you to identify what exactly is happening, but you can feel a hellish panic in them.
	The voice continues: "I know what you seek here. The trinket you covet is of little relevance, even for your own, human standards. But if you wish to possess it, then take it. Show your respect to those who have perished here, learn their lessons, and I will allow it. Perhaps the sight of that vessel will remind the living races of those who have come and gone... and how, despite their great accomplishments, their decision to make war reduced them to graveyards, relics, memories... and dust."
	The voice, and the overwhelming emotions that came alongside it, disappear as mysteriously as they came. Desyo, who witnessed you speaking into the void, asks whether you feel okay. It seems like no one else heard it.
You dock with the Emerald Sword and the crew starts working to carefully find a way in, directed by the Hai archaeologists. There is no atmosphere inside, as the life support has long since ceased to work.
	After patching as many micrometeorite holes as you can find, you use your ship's own life support to restore the Emerald Sword's atmosphere, and connect your ship's power to it to get the ship's systems minimally functional. Once it's in breathable condition, the crew boards the ship and begins getting to work. With the freshly pressurized atmosphere, you can't help but think that it smells like a tomb.
	Foster divides the crew up into various groups to explore the massive vessel and report back with their findings. "We may be here for a while. There's no telling how long it will take us to get this thing operational again. It has been many thousands of years after all," he says. Foster immediately begins inspecting one of the many Sheragi remains on board, while Eyama, Rakei, and Desyo each explore the ship with their own groups.
	Within half an hour, the entire ship is swarming with crew members hard at work studying the ship (and the remains of its prior inhabitants) and attempting to get it operational.
	(Look for Foster to see what he's doing.)
	(Look for Eyama to see what she's doing.)
	(Look for Rakei to see what she's doing.)
	(Look for Desyo to see what she's doing.)
	(Return to my ship and wait until the Emerald Sword is operational.)
	You find Foster in a room that appears to have been expanded beyond its original size and converted into a farming facility of some sort. There are rows of dried out soil, its nutrients long gone, with sunlamps suspended above. While most of the crew with Foster is busy studying the farm itself, his attention seems to be on a mummified Sheragi corpse slumped over against one of the walls. You notice that the corpse has a prosthetic wing attached to it, which has survived far better than its host.
	"What have you found so far?" you ask Foster.
	Foster doesn't respond at first, so you begin to ask your question again, but he then turns quickly to look at you, then back at the corpse. "Sorry, I was busy daydreaming. What we found. What we found..." Foster's voice trails off as he looks around the room. "Do you hear that banging sound?"
	"What banging sound?"
	"I don't hear anything."
	"Strange. I've asked the others here but they don't hear anything either... Anyway, we've found many amazing things. This farm is just the tip of the iceberg. Given that the Emerald Sword had to be able to survive the long flight through interstellar space at sublight speeds, it's no surprise that the crew had to make the ship self-sustaining. I'm sure there's much we could learn technologically from this ship. But we've also found many... disturbing things..." his voice trails off again.
	"These bodies tell stories, <last>. Terrible stories. The entrance into this area of the ship was welded shut. Almost all the corpses outside of this area were skeletons, while those inside, like this one, were mummified. My best guess is that at some point after arriving here, they realized that even with a facility like this they'd run out of food in due time." Foster kneels down to get closer to the corpse. "I'm having very vivid visions of it all, almost as if I'm there in the moment, but it's all happening so fast... They turned on each other in desperation. A small group decided to shut the rest off from the food supply, leaving them to starve. Then those in here lived off of what they had left until the life support systems gave out.
	"In all my years, I've never felt as impacted by my work as I do now. I'm feeling very uncharacteristically... emotional at the sight of all this." Foster turns away from you and wipes a tear from his eyes.
	"You have every right to be emotional. We've made an amazing but tragic discovery."
	"The Archon spoke to me when we arrived in the system. Maybe it's having an effect on you too."
	"Do you think it's because what we're doing might be wrong? We're basically raiding a tomb right now."
	"Yes. Yes we have," Foster says, sounding more upbeat than before. "Amazing, but tragic. But, amazing," he repeats, as if trying to reassure himself.
	Foster chuckles nervously at the mention of the Archon. "Perhaps," he says, then pauses. "No. I think the gravity of this situation speaks for itself."
	"I had that same thought on the jump here," Foster says. "But we're in too deep to turn back now."
	Foster stands back up and steps away from the corpse. "I should get back to exploring the rest of the ship. No use in staring at corpses all day."
	You leave the area and see that the large door that was blocking the way into the area is laying against a wall. Foster mentioned that the door had been welded shut, so the crew must have removed it somehow to investigate the area. You notice a large dent in the middle of the door. You aren't sure if that's because of the crew getting into the facility, or from the ship's previous inhabitants attempting to break in.
	You find Eyama investigating the living quarters of the ship, which consists of long halls lined on either side by bunk rooms. Many of the doors are already opened, suggesting that Eyama has already been through many of them. She comes out of one of the bunk rooms after looking through it and notices you. "Captain <last>! What brings you here?" she asks.
	"I'm wondering if you've found anything interesting yet," you respond.
	"Oh, no. Nothing much," she says, sounding somewhat disappointed. "All I've found so far have been largely empty rooms. I would have thought that they would have kept personal items in their bunks, but it looks like they haven't. Or perhaps they were moved for some reason."
	Eyama moves to the next door in the hallway. Instead of another bunk room though, the door opens to a larger room. Judging by the proximity to the bunk rooms, you'd assume this to have been a lounge area or cafeteria of sorts, but its contents suggest otherwise. The walls are covered with Sheragi writing and paintings, and the floor is scattered with various strange looking objects.
	"Is this..." Eyama says, trailing off as she approaches one of the writings on the wall.
	"What is it?"
	Eyama runs her hand against the writing and begins speaking. The sounds match the guttural tongue with which she first greeted you. She pauses after each sound, as if reading single words or characters. "This is the Sheragi alphabet," she says with awe in her voice. Her attention then shifts to writing elsewhere. She reads it, then translates for you. "It says, 'Rekla have mercy on us.'" Next to the writing is a Sheragi handprint on the wall, one of many scattered throughout the large room. Eyama presses her hand to it, nearly covering it. "This is a young hand."
	"Why is all this here?"
	"Who is Rekla?"
	"From what we know, Rekla was a divine warrior among the Sheragi. Sheragi legends stated that she united the warring Sheragi tribes and led them all to the stars.
	"This ship has to have traveled between the stars for many of your years in order to reach this system without a hyperdrive. The engines are powerful, so it perhaps took them 120 years to arrive here. Many of the Sheragi would have survived the trip, but would be very old when they arrived. This would have made it difficult for them to colonize the planet."
	"So they would have needed to reproduce on the way here?"
	"Does that mean this was a daycare of sorts?"
	"Yes. At least one, maybe two generations of Sheragi could have been born in that time."
	Eyama walks over to one of the objects on the ground and picks it up. "These are toys. So yes. This does seem to have been converted into a daycare."
	Eyama stands up and looks toward the walls. "And these wall writings were used to teach them. These handprints are theirs. There are hundreds of them. And some of these words are their final prayers." Eyama seems to go into a trance as she walks around the room glancing at the many writings on the wall.
	As Eyama wanders the room, you begin looking at the objects on the ground. One of them catches your eye; a book of massive proportions, slightly over twice the length and width of your average human book, although you imagine it would be perfectly-sized for a young Sheragi. You try to open the book but find that the covers are locked together, and the lock won't budge.
	"Eyama, check this out," you say, snapping her out of her trance.
	"Oh, a book?" she asks. She picks up the book and tries to open it herself. Without hesitating she reaches over to the lock and just pulls it right off before swinging open the massive cover.
	"How did you unlock that?"
	"What does it say?"
	"It was locked?" Eyama asks with a puzzled look on her face before immediately turning her attention back to the book.
	She skims the pages. "This is a diary. It seems to be written by an adolescent Sheragi who was born on the ship. They talk about how they've never seen a planet or star up close before, but the adults on board tell them stories of a promised land that they are traveling to. It seems that they were close when this was written, perhaps only a few weeks away from the system."
	She flips through the pages, getting further into the diary. "When they arrived at the system, they stayed in orbit around the planet. The author doesn't know everything that was going on, but there appeared to have been arguments over whether to land."
	She then flips more pages. "Some of the Sheragi left to go to the planet, while others stayed behind. It doesn't sound like the split was amiable."
	She continues to flip through the pages as they eventually turn blank. She then goes back and stops on the last written page. "Part of the remaining crew locked themselves in the hydroponic farm wing of the ship, leaving the rest of the crew with limited amounts of food. 'I'm scared and I don't know what to do.'" Eyama stops reading and closes the book, looking teary eyed. "That was the last line."
	Eyama wipes a tear from her face. "A sad story, but there are plenty of sad stories in this place. No use in lingering on this one." Eyama puts the book under her arm and walks out into the hallway, going back to checking the living quarters.
	As you are looking for Rakei, you hear a low hum begin emanating through the ship, followed by the dim glow of the emergency lights being replaced by the bright main lights. You eventually find Rakei with her crew walking through the halls of the underbelly of the ship. "Greetings, Captain," she says. "Is there something you need?"
	"Have you found anything interesting down here?" you ask.
	"Nothing out of the ordinary," she responds. "We just finished getting the power back online. We had to swap out some parts that look like they broke of old age. Seems like the power generation was active until the end.
	"It turns out that the power generation and engines are all one unit, so I guess that's how they were able to make such powerful engines. We're heading to the life support systems now to make sure they're online so that you can safely disconnect your ship."
	You follow her to the life support systems of the ship, a massive unit designed to scrub carbon dioxide out of the ship's atmosphere, keep the oxygen levels balanced, and warn about any potential leaks in the ship. Rakei finds the main control panel and begins tapping away at it. "Need to make sure this doesn't kill us when we turn it on." After a short while of working on the panel she simply flips a switch, turning it on.
	"Huh," she says. "That was a bit too easy."
	"What do you mean?" you ask.
	"Well we needed to fix the power generation because of how it broke from use, but the life support systems are working just fine."
	"Do you think the power generation failed before the life support systems did?"
	"Maybe someone turned the life support systems off."
	"That could be the case, but life support systems are usually the first set of components that need to be repaired or replaced on any ship as it ages, so maybe someone turned them off before the power generation failed."
	"That could be the case. Life support systems are usually the first set of components that need to be repaired or replaced on any ship as it ages, so someone turning them off is one way they could work when the power didn't."
	Rakei looks like her eyes are suddenly drawn to something across the room. You follow her gaze and spot an open doorway, different than the one you entered from. The doorway leads to a sealed airlock. Rakei accesses a panel next to the airlock to see that the other side is pressurized and opens it.
	On the other side of an airlock you find a large room with what looks like a runway going down the middle, leading to a shielded opening to the void of space. On either side of the room are three hangar bays. You spot that each of the hangars has a ship within it except for one.
	"Fighters," Rakei says as she approaches one of them and begins examining it. "These look like interesting pieces of technology. I wonder how the Sheragi were able to even fit into one." She runs her hand along the hull of the fighter and sees some Sheragi writing on the side. "'Onyx Chariot.' That's its name."
	"You can read that?"
	"I thought Eyama was the linguist."
	"She is. I guess she's rubbed off on me."
	"It looks like it."
	Rakei hops onto the top of the fighter, looking for a way in. She finds a hatch and opens it, looking shocked at what she sees. "Wait. I think these fighters are autonomous. I'm not seeing any signs of a life support system, or even a way that a Sheragi could pilot this. There's barely even enough room for a younger Sheragi to fit in here. If the Sheragi couldn't have piloted these then why is there one missing?"
	Rakei closes the hatch and hops down from the fighter. "We still need to get other systems working before the ship is fully functional, so we can take a look at these fighters later. And maybe we'll find the missing fighter on the planet."
	You find Desyo in the cockpit of the ship, overseeing a crew attempting to take control of the ship's computer systems. Makeshift scaffolding has been put in place just so that the crew can reach the controls. "Hello there, Captain," Desyo greets you as you walk in through the massive doorway. "Is there anything I can help you with?"
	"I'm just curious as to what you've found," you respond.
	"Not much yet. We've only just finished putting up these structures so that we can properly access the ship's controls. Now we're looking over them to find a main access point of sorts. From there, we can take control of the ship."
	"Desyo, you might want to see this," one of the crew members shouts. You follow Desyo over to the crew member, who has found a compartment under one of the consoles. Inside, among a mess of Sheragi components, lays a black box that looks exactly like the one that brought you here, and in pristine condition compared to it as well.
	Desyo excitedly removes the black box from the compartment, detaching it from the ship's electronics and attaching it to a computer of her own. "There's no telling what information we'll be able to find with this! Having this ship's black box will tell us everything about it, from its journey in Zubeneschamali all the way to when the ship lost power!"
	"Do you think we could find another ship to explore?"
	"Is it really a good idea to just plug that in like that?"
	"I don't believe that this box would have any information that would lead us to another ship. But, there's only one way to find out," Desyo says as she begins decrypting the black box.
	"If you're thinking that this could infect my computer with a virus as a countermeasure, I've already dealt with that. We had to develop a firewall to combat a virus that was in the other black box," Desyo says as she begins decrypting the black box.
	As Desyo begins extracting information from the box, you begin hearing a strange noise akin to a tea kettle. The noise begins to increase in volume and you pinpoint that it is coming from the box itself, which is now emitting strange white particles and a wave of heat. Others have seemed to notice this as well and have already moved behind cover. "Odd. Never seen that happen before," Desyo says. Before you can move, somebody pulls you and Desyo away from the box. The box suddenly gives off a loud popping noise and parts fly everywhere in an explosion.
	"Is anyone hurt?"
	"Did that happen with the last one?"
	Your questions is met with a chorus of "No, I'm fine," "All good over here," and various other affirmations of safety from the crew.
	Desyo looks at you like you're some kind of alien. "No, nothing like the sort. Don't you think I would have expected that if it had?"
	Everyone comes out from behind their cover to look at the aftermath. Luckily, no one seems to have been hurt. Desyo walks over to the large scorch mark on the floor left behind by the explosion. "I have no idea what could have caused such an explosion to occur," she exclaims.
	"How's your computer doing?" you ask.
	Desyo finds the computer on the other side of the room with a severely cracked screen, but somehow still functional. "Sturdy piece of hardware, isn't it?" she jokes. She begins tapping away at the keys as she squints at the screen. "I can still make out some of what I was able to pull from the cube. It looks like... that cube had some information on a weapon. Some sort of... chemical weapon? It seems to include... mention of coordinates. But that's all I was able to get. Whatever coordinates they were are lost to time."
	The crew are still standing around in shock as Desyo fiddles with her damaged computer. She looks up to see everyone staring at her. "Well, let's get back to work. We're not going to make any progress just standing around."
	You return to your ship, and after a few hours Foster contacts you saying that the ship is in operational condition. It'll need to be landed on the planet in this system so that the jump drive can be installed, though.
Upon landing on this strange world, you realize not everything is accounted for! Better make sure the Emerald Sword has been boarded, and no crew or cargo is on escorts out of the system.
Return to Zug.
As you enter the atmosphere of the alien world, you begin running scans of the air quality to determine if it is safe to breathe. You quickly learn why it is that the Sheragi perished in space; the atmosphere has a high concentration of chlorine gas, fatal to all living creatures aside from those that seem to have miraculously evolved here. The environmental suits brought along "just in case" turn out to be very useful here. The atmosphere would be unhealthy to breathe for long periods of time, and very uncomfortable in the short term, if you didn't bring them.
	You spend some time searching for a suitable landing spot - one that is high enough to escape the highest concentrations of chlorine gas in the atmosphere, but flat enough to land on. Your scanners eventually spot a flat mesa high above the ground. It turns out the Sheragi found this exact same spot; as you come in for a landing it becomes apparent that there are ruins of a large settlement on the mesa.
	Among the ruins you spot what looks like a small ship covered in foliage. "That must be the missing fighter," Rakei says.
	Seeing your confusion, she explains: "We found five fighters on the Emerald Sword, but there is room for six. We figured that the final one might be on the planet."
	"Well, this is quite the turn of events," Foster says as he looks at the ruins.
	"You didn't expect to find anything here?"
	"Do you think we'll find anyone left alive?"
	"Not after seeing what happened on the ship," he responds.
	"After thousands of years? I'm not holding my breath," he responds.
	You land your ship next to the Emerald Sword and the crew gets to work transporting heavy equipment from your ship to the Emerald Sword to finish getting it functional and install the jump drive.
	Foster and Eyama get into their environmental suits. "Want to join us in investigating the ruins, <first>?" Foster asks. "Rakei and Desyo will be staying here to finish work on the ship."
	"Sure, I'll come along."
	"No, I'd rather wait here."
	You head into the settlement with Foster and Eyama. Not much remains of the ruins, but there is still more than what one would expect to find after such a long time. The buildings were all connected to each other to avoid the exterior atmosphere. They were made of glass, scrap, and a kind of yellowish white plastic, the same plastic that the carapaces of animals here are made of. It's very fortunate that the young life in this planet seems to still be unable to decompose those materials, leaving the ruins only at the mercy of weather and geological processes. They appear to have been melted into shape and built into walls over time, giving the buildings a rounded, anachronistic look, like mud huts made of modern materials. All around the inside there are remains of curtains and rags hanging from the ceiling to the ground. Closer inspection reveals the rags to have traces of exotic chemicals, likely made to react with the chlorine in the air to keep the atmosphere inside breathable.
	The smaller rooms you come across appear to be just family homes, with a simplistic, single room interior, while the larger ones had other purposes, like what appears to have been a classroom, an animal carapace storage room holding the exoskeletons of many different species, a communal kitchen with remains of a solar oven, and most strikingly, a hatchery with relatively small beds, nests, and makeshift toys strewn about. Most of the rooms are littered with skeletons and remains, from the largest hunter-gatherers to the smallest young ones, a grim scene suggesting that some unknown catastrophe ended their lives all at once. Even then, the Sheragi on the surface apparently survived for much longer than the ones in the Emerald Sword, perhaps for many generations. Had the ship landed, they might have survived to this day.
	Foster documents and takes pictures of everything that he sees. Although you'd expect him to be excited to see all this, like he was when investigating the Sheragi ruins on Zug, his mood is extremely somber.
	While in one of the rooms, Eyama spots a young Sheragi skeleton laying on the ground that looks like they were reaching out for something when they died. Eyama kneels down next to the skeleton and reaches out to touch its hand. "Don't," Foster says from across the room, stopping Eyama from moving. "We need to leave this place undisturbed. We've done enough already by taking the ship." Eyama gets up without speaking, but gives a look of understanding to Foster.
	After spending enough time among the ruins, you return to the ships with Foster and Eyama.
	The final repairs on the Emerald Sword take up nearly an entire day, with the crew working in shifts to get the job done. Once the ship is patched up and all the systems are functional, the jump drive is installed. While the Emerald Sword was being worked on, Rakei was able to get a group to retrieve the final fighter and return it to the ship. All that is left to do now is to get the ship in orbit and return to <planet>.
You have reached <planet>, but not all of the archaeology equipment made it back! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Your exotic new ship draws a lot of attention from the dockworkers, partly because it is unique and never-before-seen, but probably even more so due to the unprecedentedly large cannon. Albert and the Hai archaeologists spend most of the day examining the ship in more detail and recovering the corpses, now that it's in a proper spaceport and they can access more complex equipment. Everything is completed in one particularly busy afternoon, and as night falls, the immense scale of the ship's interior allows more floors to be installed, giving you even more living space.
	You go back to the same park as before with Albert and the three Hai in partial disguise, ice creams in hand and paws to commemorate the new acquisition.
	"That is one impressive ship," you mention.
	"True," Desyo says. "I've never seen a cannon that big before."
	"I wonder how it works."
	"That's what she said."
	Desyo doesn't understand, but Eyama bursts into laughter. "Classic human joke. You see, it implies--"
	"God, don't explain it," Albert interrupts. "That was terrible. She's right though, that isn't something you see every day. Do you have any idea how it works?"
	Rakei, who is more knowledgeable in this area, responds. "It's a fusion-pumped gamma-ray laser, or GRASER for short. The device is simple in concept, but the cost involved and the proportion of everything makes it impractical to develop, not to mention that to use it would probably be considered a war crime in many civilizations, thus making R&D not worth it. It's essentially using a nuclear flash to power a laser beam that penetrates and melts everything. Fascinating, but I'm hoping you'll use it only for peacekeeping purposes."
	Eyama adds, "I've been calling it the Dragonflame Cannon. I think it's appropriate, even though it's technically not a flame in the chemical sense. The dragons of human legends could breathe fire, and although it's unlikely the Sheragi could actually do that, this cannon more than makes up for it."
	"Do you think I could get in trouble by using it?"
	"It's not going to blow up my own ship, is it?"
	Rakei laughs. "Don't worry, the Sheragi did their homework. They used simple materials, which means that the cannon can be maintained and repaired so that it continues to be structurally strong. Many of the components are active anyway, and they basically only exist for the short amount of time that the GRASER takes to fire. I only advise against firing it at point blank range."
	"I don't think you will, as long as you don't fire it into a planet. It doesn't cause unnecessary suffering like nerve gas, and it isn't as indiscriminate as a nuclear bomb. This is a focused beam. It's going to poke holes straight through any ship subject to its wrath."
	"Then what's the catch?" you ask.
	"It eats a lot of power. I mean a lot. And it does that every shot. No single reactor will be capable of making it shoot as fast as it possibly could. Expect to invest a lot in batteries and reactors if you want to re-outfit that warship and still use the cannon."
	Desyo adds, "Also, don't go thinking you're invincible now. The shield matrix in that ship is incredibly primitive. Almost nonexistent. The hull is strong, but don't rely on it too much. Human technology could probably do better if they tried. No offense."
	"So what are you going to do now?" you ask them.
	Eyama responds. "We'll continue working with Albert. These two nerds like technology and ships, but I'm far more interested in the treasure trove of cultural artifacts the buried city holds. Not to mention the humans here are very interesting!"
	You all finish your ice creams and continue chatting for a while longer before you say goodbye and return to your ship. By tomorrow, it will be in full working condition, ready to take to the endless void.
An ancient Sheragi warship that was crewed by mutineers that fled from their civil war and escaped into interstellar space. Found orbiting a disconnected star, this is an impressively large ship, fit for the equally large Sheragi. The ship's main weapon is a fusion-pumped gamma-ray laser called the 'Dragonflame Cannon.' Despite the relatively primitive outfits, it's still a very capable war machine due to its size.
For its original Sheragi masters, this warship was home to around 100 individuals. For others, however, that number more than doubles, bringing it on par with the largest city ships.
The Sheragi, being too large to effectively pilot ships this small, invested heavily in the development of autonomous fighters. The hardware that controls this isn't much more complex than the combat drones in human space, but it is bigger, and the lack of life support systems and amenities for a pilot allows it to carry extra outfitting space.
	The fighter also comes equipped with a powerful hull repair system to aid in its survival. This system doesn't work while the fighter is under fire, though, requiring the fighter to have not taken damage for a short while before activating.
This small superconductive inductor stores just enough power to keep a fighter running, and the electromagnetic field it generates helps to maintain the shield matrix.
This is a massive superconductive coil, capable of storing large amounts of energy in an electromagnetic field and discharging all of it in a fraction of a second. The magnetic field also provides a small boost to the shield regeneration of the ship, which is otherwise very underdeveloped.
This small cooling solution was designed with fighters in mind, and as such, it does not store fuel. However, it provides more passive cooling than its big brother.
This Sheragi cooling system is primitive at best, but it works both actively and passively, allowing it to dissipate much more heat than a simple radiator would. It does, however, drain a lot of power when subjected to the heat of battle. It also includes cryogenic tanks to hold some additional fuel, which is used as a temporary heat reservoir.
A much smaller cousin of the Fusion Drive, it relies on fission instead of fusion to function, providing the necessary power generation and thrust to drive the Heavy Ion Cyclotron.
The Sheragi engines are much more than simple tubes spewing fire; they are a collection of interdependent devices, providing increased efficiency at the cost of modularity. These include a hyperdrive, an enormous fusion reactor, and the most powerful plasma engines you've ever seen. It's all examples of relatively simple technology, but they have been refined and taken to their extreme. The engines are fundamentally connected to the fusion reactor, increasing their thrust even further and thereby allowing the Emerald Sword to fly at impressive speeds, traveling through interstellar space with relative ease.
This device provides radar jamming and a whole suite of electronic warfare, gathering data about the battlefield in real time and enhancing a ship's combat capabilities. It was an essential item for every Sheragi warship, and the technique it uses is still difficult to counter to this very day.
The ancient Sheragi superweapon is simple in concept, but the cost involved in developing something like it is exorbitant. It's hard to envision what could have motivated the creation of such a thing. It uses an obscene amount of energy to trigger an extremely powerful thermonuclear reaction, directing most of the energy from the resulting explosion forwards in a devastatingly powerful beam of gamma radiation.
The Sheragi Anti-Missile fires an extremely powerful laser pulse capable of obliterating any missile in a single shot, but it comes at the expense of a long recharge time.
This ancient Sheragi turret accelerates a dense packet of electrons that, while very ineffective against any kind of shielding, has a very long range and disrupts electrical systems. By the nature of these weapons, one can deduce that their tactics likely involved using the Dragonflame Cannon at long range to break the enemy shields and finishing them off at relatively close range with the Particle Waveform Turrets.
To reduce reliance on supply chains during prolonged war time, this outfit contains specialized fabricators that produce simple kinetic missiles from stock materials and a small amount of stored fuel; their guidance system merely receives data from the shipboard radar. The missiles are fired in volleys of six at a time from each launcher, making them very effective at overwhelming point defenses despite their fragility. However, the low amount of fuel they carry means they can only home in on the target for about a second before they turn into unguided ammunition. Because they are manufactured on the spot, it takes a long time to reload.
The main weapon of the Sheragi fighters is a particle accelerator not unlike the ones used by the Republic Navy and the Syndicate. However, this one produces a dense stream of heavy metal ions instead of bursts of lighter ones, resulting in high damage with intense recoil. Because the particle accelerator itself can be mounted elsewhere, it saves on weapon space.
The Rulei were likely an ancient, technologically advanced civilization from long ago, but the only things that remain of them are a single strange ship and two scarred planets.
They communicate through some sort of invasive psionic ability, speaking in a thousand voices all at once. Prolonged contact seems unhealthy.
Moments after entering the system, you are overwhelmed by an intense sense of emptiness. As you attempt to comprehend this feeling, you begin hearing whispers from behind.
	(Turn around slowly.)
	(Pull out my sidearm and turn quickly.)
	You turn around, but nothing is there besides the familiar internals of your ship. The whispers remain behind your head, like an itch that can't be reached. The whispers are in a completely foreign language that you can't even begin to understand. As you keep looking around, you begin hearing more and more murmuring. There feels to be hundreds of distinct voices tugging your mind in every direction at once now, overloading your senses. Just as you think you can't take anymore, everything falls completely silent.
	"Hello?"
	"Is there someone there?"
	"Show yourself!"
	"Human."
	An image suddenly flashes in your head as you feel millions of eyes staring at you from beyond the boundaries of space. Looking around again, you see a strange-looking spacecraft a bit off into the distance in front of you facing your direction. The voices continue to surround your mind with only slightly reduced intensity.
	"Where am I?"
	Numerous voices start up, but rather than becoming louder, they go back and forth in your head, as though they are having a discussion. After a few seconds, they fall silent, then speak a single word in a cacophonous unison.
	"Precursors."
	"What is this place?"
	"Precursors of what?"
	The whispers start to pick up with renewed strength. The swirl of endless vocals assaults your head, each moment more agonizing than the last. Finally, they cease, and you are left in silence.
	"An End."
	"An end to what?"
	"What do you mean by that?"
	The voices resume, but you sense a newfound dreariness in their tone. You try once again to communicate with the ship, but despite constant whispering in the background, it no longer answers.
	Taking another look at the vessel, it seems to have some sort of advanced origin. Eerie star-like patterns flow on its surface, and it doesn't visibly have any standard means of propulsion. At the rear end is some type of floating ring of objects that rotate in a peculiar manner.
	The planets in this system seem to have an abnormal appearance similar to that of the starship, but for some reason even looking at them gives you a headache. Something unusual must have happened here a long time ago.
It feels as though there is a tremendous weight on your mind while you visit this world. The same sort of purple starlit hues of the alien ship from above can also be found in various strange formations across the land. Unlike the whispers from before, the voices here are painfully unbearable, especially the closer you get to the surface.
	You can barely hear yourself think.
											It's enough to drive any living thing mad.
	The most ominous sensation here is a persistent feeling of your consciousness being pulled at from beneath you.
	Like something is attempting to drag
																					your
																							mind into the planet below.
	It's best you don't remain here for too long.
Concede.
End.
Join.
Fall.
The vyu-Ira is an ancient ship of the Vyu, one of several chambers of the Rulei. It is not known whether or not this was their final ship-class, or one of many, but the technology found on it may represent the height of the Rulei's advancements, as well as the cause of their downfall.
An energy particle weapon that intensifies a blast to a single location after a brief duration. The after-effect of the explosion pulls the target closer to the origin of the blast.
An energy particle weapon that intensifies a blast to a single location after a brief duration. The after-effect of the explosion pushes the target farther from the origin of the blast.
This is an extremely dangerous weapon that uses graviton technology to pull a target's mass and energy apart, and then feeds the materials to the firing ship's systems.
Investigate a Were-Squirrel
A truly outlandish rumor has been floating around that there might be a "were-squirrel" (Hai) hiding out on <destination>.
As you come in to land at the spaceport, you listen to the usual chatter of captains coming and going. Often this contains useful tidbits, such as which merchants are ticked off at the moment and whether you should expect to wait a while for refueling. Today, though, you overhear a captain telling an acquaintance a remarkable tale.
	Apparently, there is a man-beast on <planet>, and when the other captain laughs at the idea of a modern "werewolf," the first one is quick to clarify that it's more like a meter and a half tall "were-squirrel." There seems to be some confused discussion about the mythology of such beasts being revealed when caught staring at bright lights until a third captain, listening in the same as you, butts in to inform them that one of them stole that from a popular show a few years back.
	You stop listening on your final approach as the conversation descends into a good-natured argument. Nevertheless, it sounds like a lead on a possible stranded Hai that would be worth following up.
Return the Yeertle family
Transport the Yeertle family to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Wandering around after dark you find yourself down an alley near the spaceport, huddled in an alcove against the drizzle while you keep an eye out for anything suspicious, apparently last rumored to be around here. After a while, a few dozen meters ahead, you see a short man with a strange necklace. As he walks past a power transfer unit, the man shimmers and you see faintly-visible, squirrel-like features. It seems the necklace is a projector of a human hologram concealing a Hai. He is sticking to the shadows, trying to avoid being seen.
Wandering around after dark you find yourself down an alley near the spaceport. The ongoing drizzle increases in intensity and you pause for a moment to huddle in an alcove for a while until it settles down. After a few moments, a few dozen meters ahead, you see a short man with a strange necklace. As he walks past a power transfer unit, the man shimmers and you see faintly-visible, squirrel-like features. It seems the necklace is a projector of a human hologram concealing a Hai. He is sticking to the shadows, trying to avoid being seen.
	Do you want to talk to him?
	(Talk to him.)
	(Come back later.)
	The man's expression doesn't change much as you approach. His holoprojector may not be sophisticated enough to translate Hai facial expressions. You can see exposed wires on the device; this is probably a makeshift projector he produced with limited resources. A well-made version might keep Hai hidden in human space for a long time.
	From the shaking voice, you can tell he's frightened.
	"C-can I help you?"
	"You're a Hai. Why are you in human space?"
	"Do you need a ride home to Hai space?"
	"How did you make that holoprojector?"
	He pauses and after a brief delay his hologram registers surprise, "You know what this is then?"
	"Yes, that's a holoprojector and you're a Hai."
	"Yes, I've been looking for someone like yourself."
	He peers at you for a second, perhaps pondering if he can trust you with the answer.
	"Yes, well, holography is my trade, and Hai children sometimes construct holoprojectors for fun. This one is primitive but functional, if only barely, thanks to inferior human components I've had to scavenge."
	"I'm from Icelake. I chartered a flight from Icelake to Allhome with my family. They would have gone on vacation while I would have been at a conference. Instead, the human merchants locked us in a cell and took us here.
	He pauses for a second, perhaps pondering if he can trust you with the answer.
	"I'm a holographer from Icelake. I chartered a flight from Icelake to Allhome with my family. They would have gone on vacation while I would have been at a conference. Instead, the human merchants locked us in a cell and took us here.
	"My youngest daughter is very small for her age, and was able to sneak through a vent to unlock our cell. The ship was under-crewed and so we overpowered them. Unfortunately, they had already landed and the ship was locked down. I didn't know how to disable the lock so we could not take off, and for lack of options we've been hiding near here ever since.
	"Can you take us back to <destination>? I have considerable savings back there and can pay you well. Say, <payment>?"
	"Would the Hai government be looking for you?"
	"No, I can't."
	"Thank you. My name is Duniip Yeertle, by the way. My wife and three children are nearby. They have holoprojectors as well."
	"Yes! Thank you. Some crooked human merchants locked us in a cell and took us here. I've been unable to find anyone who has even heard of Hai space, and I'm afraid to approach the human authorities. You're the first lead I have! I promise I'll pay you well when we return. I can afford <payment> once we're back at <destination>.
	"My name is Duniip Yeertle, by the way. My wife and three children are nearby. They have holoprojectors as well."
	The man's holographic expression doesn't change, but his body language shifts in a way that speaks of distress.
	"The Hai government... no. No, they wouldn't. Let's just say that it's not entirely uncommon for Hai to willingly go missing. An occasional tour of duty with the military, a thrill-seeking adventure with the hopes of getting a reaction upon returning, or even... defection to our brethren. If the authorities tried to track down every single Hai who went missing as soon as they went missing, they'd spend their time chasing their tails fruitlessly.
	"Doubtlessly I'm on a register somewhere, with a timer counting down. It is even possible that someone has been told to watch for if I show up on Darkcloak. Ultimately though, the authorities don't often look for missing persons, unless they're very wealthy, until at least four months have passed by. We have been gone for only two."
	"Well, let's get you out of here and home safely."
	Turns out relief is an expression his holoprojector does handle. "Thank you! My name is Duniip Yeertle, by the way. My wife and three children are nearby. They have holoprojectors as well."
	"Please, follow me back to my house, and we will make our preparations."
	(Follow him.)
	You walk down a corridor to a stairway that leads to a brick wall. Duniip walks through the wall; apparently this is another of his holograms. You pass through and see a trio of energetic Hai children eating dinner with their mother.
	Duniip turns off his hologram and addresses his family. "I found us a pilot! They're going to take us all the way home."
	The whole family cheers and it turns out they were already packed to leave. Duniip explains they move regularly so they're not found. It takes them under two minutes to finish preparations and don their holoprojectors. Your walk back to the ship is largely uneventful until some men with strange scanners detect the Yeertle family. One man throws a small grenade with a green light on top. You recognize it as a low-level EMP device. All five holograms turn off, along with a nearby bank of lights, but by the time you stumble to a stop and identify the cause you're much closer to your ship than they are to you.
	In the sudden dimness surrounding your group, you quickly cross the remaining distance to your ship as hastily as possible before someone gets a good look at the Yeertles. Looking back, you see the men were not following you; they were running to their own ships. Looks like they're planning to follow you into orbit.
It appears some unsavory types have followed you into orbit in pursuit of the Yeertle family. You could fight them, but they don't look equipped to make the journey back to Hai space successfully; so you could also probably outrun them if you prefer.
A holographer from <planet>, he was able to cobble together five holoprojectors from scrap parts while hiding in little more than a cave in order to protect his family.
The Yeertle family is ecstatic to be home after their long ordeal and gladly give you <payment>. They promise to run background checks of human pilots before hiring next time.
A (Short) Angel of Death
There have been some mysterious deaths on <destination>.
As you come in to land at the spaceport, you listen to the usual chatter of captains coming and going. To your surprise, on one of the lower, less obvious bands, you hear a pair of captains talking about the pirate world of <planet>. Apparently these two have enough connections to profit off the occasional trip there, but one of them is warning the other not to go by at the moment.
	You listen in carefully as the speaker relays that there's some kind of hunt going on there. All the ships are being searched before departure, and there's a lot of paranoid goons with weapons hot. A merchant has been killed on his own ship, while it was parked in the spaceport, and random people keep getting into firefights with a short, hooded, 'angel of death' in dark alleyways. So far, no one claims to know what's going on.
	It's really hard to say what this could be, but it might be worth checking out.
Return Ooonem
Transport the Hai you rescued to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Following reports of the last time the 'angel of death' was sighted, you end up loitering in a twisting street parallel to a main thoroughfare. The few people using it hurry by quickly, and rarely seem to travel any great distance down this street. One very surly looking individual gives you a sour glare on his way past, a collection of weapons on full display. He looks a lot like you'd expect a bounty hunter to look, and as he moves out of sight you observe a shadow, previously motionless, detach from a spot on a wall and head back your direction, laser rifle pointed in the direction of the departing individual. As the shadow approaches, you see there's a lot of hair sticking out from their hood. They might be a Hai. Do you want to talk to them?
As you come in you are informed that all the ships are being searched before departure. No sooner do you disembark your ship than you notice that there's a lot of paranoid goons with weapons hot. Like a lot. There seems to be some kind of manhunt going on for a short, hooded, 'angel of death' who has been loitering in dark alleyways. So far, no one is explicitly claiming to know what's going on though, and even for a place like this the effort seems... ungoverned. Even to the extent that some groups seem to be actively pretending to be involved while surreptitiously not joining in with groups that leave on the hunt.
	It's all very odd, but one thing you do glean from the constant conversation and the small selection of individuals loudly demanding cooperation is that the 'angel of death', as they're calling it, is unusually short and fast, and capable of things which give you reason to suspect they might possibly be a Hai.
	(Investigate for yourself.)
	Following reports of the last time the 'angel of death' was sighted, you end up loitering in a twisting street parallel to a main thoroughfare. The few people using it hurry by quickly, and rarely seem to travel any great distance down this street. One very surly looking individual gives you a sour glare on his way past, a collection of weapons on full display. He looks a lot like you'd expect a bounty hunter to look, and as he moves out of sight you observe a shadow, previously motionless, detach from a spot on a wall and head back your direction, laser rifle pointed in the direction of the departing individual. As the shadow approaches, you see there's a lot of hair sticking out from their hood. Seems you may have indeed found a Hai. Do you want to talk to them?
	As you step into their path, the Hai swings the laser rifle towards you and says, "You're either very brave, very stupid, or know something... I should warn you, I'm not going back to them!"
	She watches your expression closely and, when you don't appear to be hostile, settles into a wary but more relaxed stance. "You're not one of them. What do you want with me?"
	"I was wondering why a Hai is on a pirate planet."
	"Not one of whom?"
	"Sorry to bother you. I'll leave you to your business."
	"I was going to meet a businessman on Shroud to arrange a large-scale import deal for my research project. I asked a human merchant to take me there, but I was tricked. The businessman doesn't really exist, and the deal was faked. The merchant locked me in a cell and brought me here instead. When he opened the cell, I managed to grab his rifle, shoot him, and hide. It's amazing how slowly humans move."
	"There are some men looking for me. I've managed to escape them so far; they're not as quick as a Hai. I think they're friends of the merchant who locked me up."
	"I have no money with me, but my family on <planet> can pay."
	Can you take me back to <destination>? My family can pay for my return.
	"Yes, I'll take you there."
	"Why are you on a pirate planet?"
	"I'm not one of whom?"
	"Sorry, but you'll have to find another ride."
	Good, but now I must ask, is your ship capable? Are you sure? The pirates are fully aware I am here and will likely chase you, even if you're in good standing with the local authorities. I'd rather not die on your ship.
	"Don't worry. I know how to dodge pirates."
	"I have a better ship parked somewhere else. I'll go get that first."
	"You should find a different ride then."
	She looks at you curiously. "You're a good one, aren't you? Very well, take this transmitter. When you return, come back to this area. Activate it, and I will find you. Come alone."
	She quickly keys something into the transmitter, and it beeps before displaying a locked icon on the screen. As soon as she has handed it over, she turns and melts down an alley which you weren't even entirely aware of. The transmitter in your hand is small, and looks custom modified. Whoever this Hai is, she's capable.
	You return to the twisting alleyway you first met the mysterious 'angel of death' in and activate the transmitter. It's been a little while, but on your way in there was a bulletin out for her capture being broadcast, so it seems she's definitely still at large.
	You have to wait so long you're starting to feel silly, before she suddenly drops in front of you; a rappel rope swinging silently above her head. "Good, you have returned, are you ready to go?"
	"I'm ready."
	"I'm sorry, but it's too dangerous for me to get you out of here."
	"Okay. I guess I should have introduced myself... it's easy to forget social niceties in a place like this. My name is Ooonem, and I'm a researcher from <planet>. Thank you for agreeing to take me home."
	The pair of you, at her direction, make your way back to your ship, with you quietly greasing the palms of those at one of the many access points to the spaceport. Despite your precautions, though, as you weave between parked ships on your final approach, you notice several men sitting on a nearby ship's loading ramp looking intently at Ooonem, their guns lying close by. Before the men are able to make a grab for their weapons, Ooonem pulls a gas grenade out of her cloak and throws it at the gunmen in one smooth movement. The grenade lands squarely on the ramp, sending a fine mist all around their ship. The men, hands halfway to their weapons, all drop to the ground instead; from the screams of pain and the sounds of convulsion coming from behind you, they're probably not going to trouble you any longer.
	"I had better leave these behind," she says, dropping a few gas grenades on the ground. "I took them off some pirates a few days ago. They're quite illegal." You notice a label on the grenades: "Sarin Gas: twenty-meter radius." This was a nerve gas grenade that uses one of the older varieties of the gas. They're cheap and plentiful in pirate space.
	You quickly board your ship and immediately take off.
	The woman shakes her head at you and runs off into the shadows. You doubt you'll ever see her again.
Those pursuing Oonem have caught on quickly and followed you into orbit. You'll probably have to fight them, but they're only Core pirates and don't look equipped to make the journey back to Hai space successfully. If you're fast enough, you could probably attempt to simply dodge them instead.
A Hai researcher with a remarkable talent for stealth and laser rifles. Also a predilection for shooting first and not taking prisoners. She escaped kidnapping and survived independently on <origin> for a remarkable length of time where she acquired the moniker 'angel of death'. She's also quite the capitalist.
Ooonem is relieved to return to <planet>. She leads you to her family's home where you're treated to a bountiful dinner. The cuisine is entirely human-Hai fusion dishes. The dessert is accompanied by what Oonem describes as the most delicious spice of all: <payment>.
Phantom Distress Calls
Some merchants have mentioned picking up a distress call near <destination> that they couldn't locate the source of.
As you come in to land at the spaceport, you listen to the usual chatter of captains coming and going. Out here on the edge of things and toward the Core, it is a popular pastime for merchants to swap ghost stories. In all likelihood, the majority of these stories can be put down to minor failures from cheap, mass-produced Syndicate equipment. Nevertheless, one of them stands out this time.
	It seems a handful of merchants have all been picking up a very faint distress signal in the vicinity of <planet>, but every time they've gone to look for it, they've either experienced some kind of engine warning, or a large group of pirates has jumped into the system, and they've bugged out. Mysteriously the pirates don't seem to have been looking for or pursuing the merchants when they've appeared though.
	It seems like a long-shot, but you wonder if perhaps this might be a legitimate call for help, maybe from someone who can't risk broadcasting themselves too aggressively...
Return the Prison Role-Players
Return Hai prison role-players to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
As you set your landing vector, you detect a very faint distress call directed at your ship. Your scanners show it appears to come from a remote island. Do you want to check it out?
	(Follow the distress signal.)
	(Ignore it and come back later.)
	You put your ship down in a forest clearing and step out to find some wary-looking Hai with a directional transmitter and a very broken freighter in pirate colors.
	One of them, a lady, steps forward, and as she does so her face lights up as if she's seen you before. "Captain <last>, Captain <last>! Please help us, we need to get home to <destination>!"
	"Do you want to know anything else, or can we leave now?"
	"Of course. Let's go."
	"How do you know who I am?"
	"How did you get here?"
	"Sorry, maybe another time."
	"You don't remember me? I was the first Hai you met. You were so confused back then and didn't know who or what we were. It was very cute."
	"There are prison role-play cruises in Hai space where we can ride in a brig with human security guards. My research group thought it would be a fun experience, so we all chartered one," she says.
	"Unfortunately, it was a trick! They were pirates and took us into human space instead. They didn't feed us much, so we all pretended to be too weak to stand. When one of the pirates came in to check on us, we overpowered him. I don't know if they got sloppy or if they were just new at this, but it seems they had forgotten how fast we can be. The other pirate set the ship to crash land and used an escape pod. Now we're stuck here."
	"Ah, well, we can give you what is left of our travel budget: <payment>. The money is on <planet> though, so you'll have to fly us there first."
	"Excellent! Everyone pile aboard. Let's go back to <planet>!"
The Hai researchers thank you for rescuing them from their ill-fated "prison role-play cruise" and promise to stick to safer pastimes in the future. They happily give you <payment>.
Deep Crevasses
There could be kidnappers or kidnapped Hai hiding on <destination>.
As you come in to land at the spaceport, you listen to the usual chatter of captains coming and going. You don't hear anything specific to Hai, but when the punchline of a joke is "deep crevasses" on <planet>, it occurs to you that there would be the perfect place for both illicit activities and escapees to hide out under the radar for a long time. It's probably worth a look...
Return Meroot and Lucy
Transport the scientists you rescued to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
As you walk through a major street, you notice a woman approach an alcove in the side of a building carrying some food. She looks around to see if she's being followed before entering the alcove and covering it with a sheet of steel. You only had a moment to observe, but through the gap you spotted something hiding inside the small alcove which might have had tufts of hair sticking out of the clothing across its body. It's probably a Hai.
	Do you want to investigate?
	(Investigate.)
	You knock on the steel sheet, and a woman within the alcove slides it to the side. As she emerges, she carefully moves her body to block your view of the alcove.
	She asks nervously, "Yes, can I help you?"
	"Why are you hiding a Hai in there?"
	"No, I was just walking by. Sorry to bother you."
	Her expression immediately takes on a shade of panic and you hear what sounds like something heavy being picked up in the background. "Please don't tell anyone! We were both kidnapped, but we managed to escape. Now we're hiding here, hoping those people don't find us again."
	"Yes! Some men kidnapped my friend and I, but she got us out and we managed to escape. We've been hiding here, hoping they don't find us again."
	In the background you hear someone hiss, "Lucy! What are you doing, we can't trust them!"
	"Uh, luf e ow, vai, luf e eh?"
	"No really, you can trust me, I promise!"
	Lucy's face goes pale and she seems frozen in shock, while in the background you can hear sounds of someone who is definitely rushing to do something, though you can't see what.
	"No wait! Luf e ow, vai, luf e eh?"
	The person in the background stills. "What did you say?"
	You repeat the phrase.
	Somewhere out of sight you hear a string Hai words that sound very exasperated before they address Lucy again. "Let them in, Lucy, they probably are here to help."
	The emphasis placed on the 'are' is thick, and it seems to snap Lucy out of her frozen state. "Oh, uh, yes, alright. If you could fly us to <planet>, we can pay you when we arrive. You'll likely be followed though, so I hope you have a fast ship. I think you should probably come in, and we'll talk about it."
	(Enter their alcove.)
	"No, I can't help you get home."
	The alcove is a dead air space between two utility rooms in the basement of a warehouse. The hole in the wall looks like it was recently dug out by a laser cutter. There's a small refrigerator, a two-person cot, an air processor, and a shelf with typical household items. Books are strewn everywhere; the women must be avid readers. It seems they've set up this tiny space as a decent, albeit very small, apartment.
	The human woman slides the sheet of steel back into place behind you both once you're in and says, "I'm Lucy."
	"And I'm Meroot," adds the Hai woman. "I was on Newhome walking to my research lab when some men pulled me into an alley and zapped me with a taser. I woke up in the brig of a space ship."
	"My experience was similar. I was walking from my biolab to my house on Serpens. Some men jumped out from behind a dune and zapped me."
	Meroot continues, "They took us both here. I was able to struggle out of my handcuffs and sneak the keys from the guard. We escaped together, and we've been hiding for weeks. Please take us to <destination>!"
	"Sure. Let's go."
	"No, you'll have to find another pilot."
	The two women put on clothing that thoroughly covers their person. They lead you through a series of ducts and alleys back to the pad where your ship is parked. Just as your airlock opens there's a sharp zapping sound as someone shoots Meroot with a stun gun. You and Lucy duck and a couple other shots dissipate harmlessly on the bulkhead of your ship. You fire off a couple shots back and between the two of you you manage to drag Meroot through the airlock, seal it behind you and lift off. It appears you're being followed into orbit.
Meroot and Lucy thank you for your help and give you <payment>. Lucy decides to live in Hai space with Meroot. "It's safer here," she explains, though you have your doubts. You ask, but the two have no idea who the men that kidnapped them were.
Lucrative Transport
You've heard there's some suspiciously lucrative transport jobs on <destination>.
As you come in to land at the spaceport, you listen to the usual chatter of captains coming and going. One guy is bragging particularly odiously about some lucrative transport jobs he'd picked up on <planet>. Of course, it could mean nothing, but it's also very suspicious for that particular world. <planet> is not known for lucrative transport jobs, and it could likely be contraband, or worse...
Return Gipeep
As you come in to land one guy is on the comms, bragging particularly odiously about some lucrative transport jobs he'd picked up. This catches your attention only because <origin> is not known for lucrative transport jobs. It could likely be contraband, or worse...
After some quiet investigation you find out that all the lucrative transport jobs are coming out of one particular warehouse. The paperwork all looks to be in order, but to be sure you should pick up a job yourself.
	(Check it out.)
	(Leave.)
	Surprisingly, when you arrive the warehouse is unattended, which is suspicious in and of itself. Poking around a little you walk by some cargo and hear loud thumping coming from a locked crate. A ring of keys is hanging nearby. Someone could appear at any moment and you could be in trouble. Do you want to check it out?
	(Examine the crate.)
	One key stands out, it has a symbol you don't recognize that looks like an angry cat in a circle. As you get closer to the thumping, the ordinary-looking crate starts to seem a little strange. At first glance it appears to be the sort of crate that is well-insulated against sound and temperature, but this one must have concealed breathing holes. You can still hear muffled thumping fairly clearly, but outside you hear what sounds like a loading vehicle pull up, and you don't know what's in the crate.
	Do you want to try opening the crate?
	(Open the crate.)
	You put the key in the lock, turn, and the next thump you hear pushes the crate open so hard it falls over. An angry-looking Hai jumps out and starts yelling at you in its own language.
	After a few seconds, the Hai calms down and speaks in your tongue. "They locked me in a box! I was walking home from a store on <planet>, and some humans pulled me into an alley. They shoved me in a box and now I'm..." the Hai pauses and looks around, "not in Hai space?
	"Please take me home. I'm a ship architect from <planet>. We should hurry before they come back."
	"Of course. Just hop in my ship."
	"No, I'm not going that way any time soon."
	He makes a frustrated sound in the back of his throat and gives you a pointed and pleading look. "I have nowhere else to go! I'm not exactly inconspicuous. I'll be caught soon. Please, I can pay you well."
	"In that case, I'll take you."
	"No. You'll have to find another pilot."
	You can hear men approaching through the warehouse entry and the Hai quickly retrieves something from the crate before you both run quickly in the other direction. Soon you hear shots fired, and see them hit a nearby wall. They passed quite close to your head.
	Through luck and skill, the two of you make it to your ship and quickly launch. The escape seemed a little too easy though; they may have been taking pains to avoid hitting your new passenger.
	It appears ships are following you into orbit.
A Hai ship architect whom you rescued from his captors. His tenacity of spirit may have helped you to do more than just recover him to Hai space.
The Hai, who has since introduced himself as Gipeep Anl'ooh, thanks you for helping him finally finish his long walk home from the store. His grateful family give you <payment>. None of them know who kidnapped him or why.
Information Blackout
Meet the Syndicate Security Captain in the spaceport on <origin> when you're ready.
Arriving on Sunracer, the entire port seems to be abuzz with the news. It has not gone unnoticed that the Navy moved a large fleet into the uninhabited systems in the northern corridor between Syndicate space and the Far North. Now, it seems that blockades are going up in Rigel, Nihal, Mirfak & Zaurak using Navy or Syndicate security vessels depending on jurisdiction. The theories are flying thick and fast, but everyone seems to agree on one thing; there is some sort of major crisis happening.
Your communicator beeps and you realize you have received a message from Remington. There's a Captain of one of their security detachments waiting to meet you in the spaceport. Apparently there have been developments while you were in flight. Now might be the last opportunity to sort anything else out for a little while.
Join the Fleet and Invade Stormhold
The fleet will arrive in <waypoints> soon. Join it, and lead it to Stormhold.
The Syndicate security captain in the spaceport is very easy to find. She hands you a pad with a secure validation sequence to confirm her briefing comes from the Navy, co-signed by Xilin.
	She appears to have a posse of other captains with her who conveniently enforce a bubble of privacy around you just by taking up space. "So," she says. "The Republic has agreed to accompany the Hai to precisely one world. Combined intelligence indicates that <planet> is the most likely place for any kidnapped Hai to be, assuming they exist. The blockades that have gone up are to secure this area of space against the secret of this exercise... or at least try to.
	"There's going to be a battle, and you have a critical role entrusted to you for coordinating the fleet. There can be no detours. Once we start moving it will be one jump to the rendezvous and then two to our target. Are you ready for it?"
	"I'm ready now."
	"I need time to prepare."
	"Very good." So far she hasn't introduced herself, but as she puts the pad away her flight jacket moves enough for you to see 'Captain Valeria Estrada' printed on the jumpsuit underneath. "Now, to bring you up to speed: At least two pirate groups at <planet> have been involved in smuggling or kidnappings. <planet> is a fortress of anonymity and discretion, as well as being a literal fortress. An agreed upon force of overwhelming numbers has been prepared at Mountaintop. The objective is to overwhelm the defenders, prevent any escapes, and occupy the planet while they ferret out all the groups intelligence has flagged.
	"The Navy, Unfettered, and Hai fleets will travel from Mountaintop to meet you. We must fly with all haste to <waypoints> to meet them, where you will lead the fleet and coordinate the attack. My security force will follow, but until we get to Sumar don't worry about waiting for us. We'll handle ourselves. Once we're all together in Sumar, your job will be to make sure everyone moves as one for each jump from there to <system>."
	She lowers her voice even further, despite the privacy afforded already. "There will be two Navy Carrier groups, our full Syndicate Special Security Detachment, the Unfettered Expeditionary Fleet, and a full Hai Taskforce. I haven't heard of a fleet this large in one place since the Alpha Wars. This coordination role is not a joke. There's lots of scope for things to go wrong. We will go in, clean up, and search for Hai. Parliament will reassess the scope of concern later, depending on what we find down there. We follow your lead, Captain <last>."
	She nods. "Very well, but don't take too long. We'll be waiting here for as long as we're able."
You have failed an essential mission (ALL of one fleet has been wiped out). To complete this story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
You have reached the rendezvous and various fleets are arriving. As promised, both Hai and human ships have tied their navigation to your systems for coordinating the next couple of jumps to Alcyone. You have never seen so many military vessels in one place.
The next jump from here is to Alcyone. Make sure all ships are ready to jump all at once. The pirate and marauder lords of <planet> have prepared for the invasion and are expected to be waiting. A disciplined arrival is essential.
When the Hai and humans try to deploy troops, they're drawn off by orbital bombardment. You must defeat the entire pirate and marauder defense fleet before landing.
Contact Giti
Go to <planet> to get a line of communication out to Giti.
While you join the fleet that lands to occupy the spaceport, other assault ships pursue priority targets elsewhere on <origin>. There's a significant wait to ensure that ground troops have secured the port before everyone can reconvene to discuss the next steps.
	You eventually reach the secured command area set up in the spaceport as Choot'k and Danforth come in discussing tactical minutiae. They are trailed by Batu, and eventually joined by Sayari and Teeneep. One of Danforth's lieutenants brings up the rear and closes the door behind you all.
	Everyone is waiting for you to speak. It seems this is your final briefing as the commander of the forces before diplomats and military leaders take over.
	"What is the status of the <origin> operation?"
	"Is the Hai disinformation campaign still working?"
	"Sayari and Teeneep, what are your plans?"
	"I'm honored to have served you as fleet commander."
	"Excellent work, everyone! Carry on!"
	Danforth begins the report. "Stage one has been successful. However, it looks like we're going to be here a while. <origin> is a rabbit warren of hidden places. Even with the Hai resources on top of everything we've brought, it could take weeks to root things out sufficiently."
	"General Choot'k, would you agree with the human's assessment of the effort required here?" asks Teeneep.
	The Unfettered warlord does not even hesitate to respond, "Yes. Even with our superior capacities we will be here a while."
	Batu clears his throat and Danforth glances at him before evidently remembering something discussed earlier. "I'm sorry, Captain <last> and Elder Teeneep. I must advise you that at this stage all hope of keeping the Hai a secret is lost. Even if we could convince all factions to keep the secret, the blockade has drawn too much attention, so all that remains is to resolve our common issues before the Hai become irretrievably common knowledge."
	Teeneep responds, "We all knew that day would come soon. Be glad we're here together to usher it in peacefully and with strength."
	"Our place is here, Captain <last>," says Teeneep, definitively.
	Danforth looks between them. "Perhaps, Elder, you and the Ambassador would find it more comfortable to return to Mountaintop? There will be little diplomacy here, and scarcely more safety, and it would seem to me that, even with Batu here as the Deputy Minister's eyes on the ground, it would be easier to conduct your responsibilities directly."
	Teeneep seems to bristle but Sayari smoothly cuts in. "You should not concern yourself with our comfort, Admiral. It would not be seemly for the Elder to abandon the field while another leader remains." She looks pointedly at Choot'k. "You may have forgotten also but there are Hai representatives of two governments in this room. It would also be unseemly for our ships to act in concert with the Unfettered without a diplomatic liaison here. And so I too have my place here. Things have happened quickly, of course, but my colleague Hiyamaharu will soon arrive at Mountaintop to act as my counterpart there. I trust things are being attended to, but you might consider checking that your people are properly aware of that."
	Everyone looks surprised or offended, as if you are the court jester who thought he was king. They're dismissive of your comment, as they begin to discuss your departure.
	The leaders all look pleased. General Choot'k says, "You've surpassed my expectations, Captain <last>. I've never seen a fleet so large, but you led it to victory with the speed and skill of a veteran general." Danforth looks just as impressed.
	Danforth explains, "For now, all communication in and out of the area is blocked at the relay unless it is to or from specific high-level Navy or Syndicate sources. Captain <last>, I'm afraid that also includes you. We don't have time or equipment to harden your systems against potential intrusion, but you do have the nearly exclusive freedom to pass through the blockade. You're a pilot, not a ground combat troop operator, so you should pursue other matters."
	On your way out Sayari catches you. "Let's meet aboard Teeneep's ship. We have sensitive matters to discuss." You follow her to the ship.
	"What is it, Sayari?"
	"Do you have more leads on the smuggling operation?"
	Once there she pulls up information on known or possible smuggling operations used to justify the <origin> operation. Her focus is on what they hadn't reconciled. "Unfortunately, while many matches were found, there was nothing in the new data that conclusively linked to the mysterious symbol. No human escapees had been tested for mild cadmium poisoning, so that was a dead end too. I know it's been thrust into the background pretty heavily, but did you find anything yourself? We need to decide if we're setting this aside or not."
	"I've met a researcher named Giti who has been quite informative."
	"I need to leave the communication blackout to check."
	Sayari responds. "Yes, of course.
	You relate to her your meetings with Giti and the evidence she gathered.
	"If you haven't heard from her in a while," Sayari says, "then perhaps she has more information by now?
	"Please, while we have some time. Follow up that thread and then return. At this point if it proves to be a fruitless search then so be it, but I insist on having no loose ends we haven't tried our best to follow to conclusion. If you come back and that's the end, I'll bring Teeneep around."
	Recalling the star charts, you remember that <destination> is the nearest planet outside the communications blackout zone.
Investigate Coordinates
Investigate the coordinates Giti found via jump drive
You need to pass through the system at the coordinates before coming here.
You enter the system and find it to be largely barren, and yet there is what appears to be a red wormhole here. It is entirely possible that here, in the middle of the most pirate-infested region of Syndicate space, there is a route to somewhere else. This is an important discovery that needs to be reported. It would be safest to meet Giti in person and discuss what to do next.
It takes your computer a few seconds to triangulate, but it says you've left the Milky Way galaxy and are now just beyond the edge of the known galactic disc. Your computer is identifying the system name as "Deep Space 7C" from old astronomical surveys done in the early 22nd century. This is definitely a good place to hide. It is past time to return to Giti now and discuss what to do next.
Once safely parked and hooked into the relay network from Canyon you check timezones and place a call to Giti. Astonishingly, you manage to get a remarkably clean connection and don't have to leave a message. Perhaps by fluke it's night in all the most populous places between here and there. She's at her desk when she answers, and it occurs to you for the first time that a research console on a Navy grade connection probably has pretty good bandwidth. "Oh it's a relief to see you Captain. There's been so much going on, I feared you'd been caught up and detained with all that blockade stuff that all over the news right now. You're lucky though, it's quite late here and I was just about to pack up."
	"I was a little caught up, actually."
	"What do you know about the blockades?"
	As you draw breath to speak she cuts you off. "I actually don't have a lot of time or I'll miss my ride, so we'll skip the pleasantries. Obviously if you're calling me back you want to know what I found about the notation. That too is something you have good timing on, I was delayed on that until just a couple days ago. Now where was that file... ah here it is.
	"So, the notation is actually quite dense, and is mostly some probably meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus'. It sounds aspirational. However, it also refers to a secret gateway. I'm sending you some coordinates." You receive a simple text message a moment later with some system coordinates in it.
	"What is Elenchus?"
	"I've never seen this system on a star map. What do you expect to find there?"
	Giti ignores your question and continues. "What I've just sent you is the modern representation of coordinates in the notation. Now it's possible there's some kind of code or cipher, in which case they'd be wrong, but if they are direct from the notation, they indicate a system in Syndicate space that is not on the regular star maps. It must require a jump drive to access, but fortunately I know you happen to have one."
	She shrugs. "Of course, I have no idea how they'd have a jump drive, but that's not my problem. Whether you find something or not, come back and see me. If that turns up bust, I found an online community who seem to be a support group for people who've had family members kidnapped. The missing person reports for some of them are suspiciously close matches or share features with those in the files you left for me. I haven't looked deeply though, it just came up yesterday while I was chasing down loose threads."
	"Can you tell me more about the victim support group?"
	"How do you know I have a jump drive?"
	(Give up on getting any more information out of her.)
	She seems rushed and ignores you, picking up a bag and putting some items from her desk into it.
	She picks up a bag and starts putting some items from her desk into it.
	"In any event, I really must go. Check out those coordinates, and then come see me. Fly safe, Captain!"
Syndicate Internal Affairs
Go directly to <planet> or you will become a fugitive in Republic space.
A Republic Intelligence officer who intercepted your investigation with Giti before involving you with Syndicate Internal Affairs.
You have failed a critical narrative mission and are now considered an outlaw. If you want to complete this story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
After a long series of shuttles, high-speed rails, and a several-minute-long elevator ride, you once again reach Giti's office.
	As soon as she sees you she says, "Captain <last>! Welcome back. Please, come in."
	She walks into the room and as you follow you go to shut the door, since she didn't, and come face to face with four people in Republic Intelligence uniforms standing either side of the door waiting for you. They each have a hand on their holstered weapons, but none make any move to draw them.
	"Captain <last>," says the man to your right, "please shut the door."
	(Shut the door.)
	(Draw your weapon.)
	You are not faster than four trained intelligence operatives.
	The man, whose Republic Intelligence uniform is labeled with the name "Agent Kopkow", nods very firmly and gestures for you to take one of the only seats in the room. He takes the one opposite and Giti sits at her desk. The three agents remain standing.
	You've had some encounters with Republic Intelligence, but you know what everyone knows. They're the top police force of the Republic, dealing with high-profile civilian crimes that local authorities can't handle: murder investigations, interplanetary kidnappings, and the like. They also gather intelligence throughout human space, and possibly beyond, reporting directly to the Republic Parliament... which mostly means it's beholden to the interests of the members of Parliament.
	"What's the problem?"
	"I'm on an urgent mission that is critical for three governments. Don't bar my way."
	Uncannily, the agents all smirk at you at the same time. Kopkow responds flatly, "We don't respond well to threats."
	"Now, Captain <last>, your friend Giti here has tripped a flag in our systems that marks what you're looking into as an item of particular interest to Syndicate Internal Affairs. In fact, it is an interest which they have exclusive and sole jurisdiction over, even over and above us." He looks at you meaningfully. "That requires an Act of Parliament in a closed session, which has not occurred for a significant length of time, if you catch my drift."
	He clears his throat. "We've been following you recently, and interrogating some people you've met. Since we have determined that you have found... something, and that it is meaningful, we must send you to Hephaestus. We request that you take Giti, any information or equipment you were planning to take, and go immediately and directly. Do you understand?"
	"Yes"
	"I would prefer not to."
	Agent Kopkow narrows his eyes at you very slightly. "This is not an optional request." Beyond your line of sight you can hear the faint rustle of clothing shift where the agents are still standing.
	(Comply.)
Seeking Aid
Seek out a man Giti has identified who has been independently looking into this with some degree of competence.
Curious about your story, the authorities let you land.
At length you return again to tell Giti about the system with the unstable wormhole in it. You aren't required to land elsewhere on the planet this time, so it's a shorter, if equally crowded, journey to her office.
	After the both of you spend some time pouring over things for a while, she concludes that they must have some sort of special feature they're using to access it. "It just doesn't make sense that there'd be a system there, that they have coordinates to, that they're not using. Especially when we can't find them anywhere else."
	"Do you have any other leads I can follow?"
	"Even if I've found them, I don't know what they're doing or how. Any ideas?"
	She looks at the many tabs displaying the information you've brought or she's found. "You remember that online community on unexplained kidnappings? I came across a man who might, just maybe, know something useful. He claims to have found something odd related to cases in the set in your data, and one of the cases in your set is the disappearance of his wife, which is where his motivation comes from.
	"His theory is... well, it's a bit crackpot for the local authorities. I wouldn't have believed it either, were it not for the vastly superior swathe of information we now have at our disposal, but it might be what you need. I think you should go seek him out on <planet>."
	She rummages around and then presents you with a data stick. "This has the information he gave me to follow him up. I convinced him to trust me, so hopefully he's receptive to you. It also has all the data that explicitly identifies all the ship IDs that are associated with our suspicious cases. That's the best I've got for you, though. If this doesn't pan out we'll need to go a different way."
Hunting Smugglers
Find and board a smuggler's ship. Your display will identify them as the "Smuggler" government, but they will still look like merchants. Try Syndicate space or the Far North. Then investigate any leads and return to <planet>.
You have not yet boarded a ship to learn anything about the smugglers. You will need to do this to continue.
Goraz is a communications researcher from Tarazed Shipyards. His wife went missing some time ago, and he hopes his research will lead to her rescue.
Some pirate or merchant ships (identified by the computer as "Smuggler") are identifiable by an odd frequency variance in their relay signatures. They are probably involved in kidnapping human or Hai specialists.
Following Giti's directions you make your way to the communications research laboratory for Tarazed Shipyards in search of a man named Goraz Zoltof who works there. The brief contains an address and detailed information about the man, whose wife went missing under mysterious circumstances some time ago, though it's mostly information you've already been told. After a short commute by subway you reach his house and knock on the door.
	He's a little groggy, but manages to ask, "Yes?" You explain about the kidnappings and how your colleague thinks his theory is worth investigating. You avoid mentioning that some of the people are Hai, just in case he's never heard of them. He seems to awaken immediately. "You found a lead on my wife's disappearance? Wait, you're with 'BookWyrm23'?!" He turns and steps into a pair of slip-on shoes while grabbing a jacket. "Let's go to my laboratory at once! I can show you."
	"Sure." (Head to the laboratory.)
	"A lead of a sort."
	"Oh that's her handle?"
	He blinks at you. "I mean, I assume you're with the librarian?"
	"Research librarian," you clarify.
	"Exactly, come on, lets go." He quickly leads the way back to the tube.
	You clarify that technically it's a lead on cases that match the same profile as his wife's, not strictly his wife's case. His expression falters momentarily and then he seems to find some internal resolve to draw upon. "Good enough for me... Thank you, for your honesty."
	After a short return trip, you reach what looks like a small private spaceport. From the extra equipment and unusual ship designs, it must be a Tarazed Corporation research shipyard. Goraz's laboratory is an entire docking bay with a modified Blackbird, but despite its size, it is conspicuously absent any other personnel. He takes you on board and, noting your attention to your surroundings, explains that he has a few assistants who are off-world most of the time.
	Goraz says, "Here, let me take a look at what you've brought me." He's eyeing your pockets.
	"It's all in this data stick."
	"I think this is what you've been looking for."
	Goraz takes the data stick you brought and plugs it into the communicator. After several minutes of mucking about with list formats and muttering incoherently to himself, a search result collates matches on his screen and he pauses. You're not sure exactly what you're looking at, but when it finishes he lets out a long slow breath and comments to himself in a low voice. "Bastijn Biesterveld, you absolute legend. He was right - it's the interference."
	He turns back to you and explains. "Normally interference isn't something that's logged, but when you're in civilized space with hyperspace relays, your ship does a final handshake with the local relay station as it jumps." He pauses briefly, maybe to see if you understand him.
	You see a long technical explanation coming on.
	"Skip the technical bits, please. Can you tell me what I need to do?"
	"I've helped with hyperspace relays recently, and I can never get enough lectures about hyperspace network issues. Please don't spare any details."
	He nods and begins his lecture. "The local relay station your ship contacts sends that handshake signature to the destination station so it knows exactly who you are to be able to reconnect communications at the other end. It's a fully automatic process, and it's independent of ship IDs. It's just buried in there as a check from back in the days when hyperdrives would occasionally explode and we'd need to work out who went missing. It gets logged and automatically overwritten every couple days, and someone would probably have gotten rid of it if it wasn't so deeply baked into the way the system works. If you know when a ship jumped and where it jumped to, you can use it to confirm it didn't blow up; and if there's something wrong with the communications equipment you can use the log info to identify if a specific ship is the same ship talking to you later, but neither of those are particularly useful since the same information can be acquired more easily and in much higher quality through other means.
	"There's a small group of us comms geeks that have lost people, or know people who have, that the authorities can't help. We're scattered all over and we've been looking at this ourselves. Together we identified some ships we thought were suspicious, but we've not been able to pin down anything concrete. Bastijn was convinced there was a pattern of interference signatures from the logs; he made the analysis program, but it was never definitively distinct from the noise. This data set you've brought, though. Well, once you filter for the subset of ships in our data set, what you've given me matches so completely to the set of ships we've found with interference that it has to be a match! Ninety-eight point five percent confidence interval completely annihilates the idea that it could be random."
	Goraz pauses for a moment, struggling to lower the content to layman's terms. "There's some ships that don't show up right on comms, which only a few experts like me can spot. Some of it could be random noise, but that's unlikely. We can filter out the subset of ships in our dataset. Hold on..."
	After a few moments of fiddling with terminals, he continues. "What you've given me matches so completely to the set of ships we've found with interference that it has to be a match! Ninety-eight point five percent confidence interval completely annihilates the idea that it could be random."
	He casts around for a moment and then plugs a freshly unpacked data card into his console. "Give me a little time: I can do something for you now. I'll be back with you in ten minutes."
	"Take your time."
	"I'll be here waiting."
	After some time, in which he looks like he's installing a series of programs, he returns your original data card and the second one. "Load this new card into one of your communicator's extra data storage slots, preferably the first one. This new card will run maintenance level processes with the communicator to download the logs from the local relay when you enter a system, match the log signatures for ships that are in-system, and code up extra info for their ID's. Functionally, they'll show up as 'Smuggler' on your display. You'll have to hunt for them though, cause you'll have to be in the same system as them for any of this to work."
	"That's some impressive work in such a short time."
	"Thank you for the help."
	He nods in response. "Also... maybe keep this quiet. This is," he pauses and clears his throat conspicuously, "somewhat less than strictly legal, though there's no penalty attached to accessing the data at the level this card will use. My data sets only only cover coreward parts of Syndicate space, but your other data is heavily weighted to the Far North. Maybe if you have no luck in Syndicate space it'll be worth the trip to try up there."
	All business and technical explanation now out of the way, you watch as the reality of what's happening seems to suddenly sink in, and his demeanor changes suddenly as his eyes shine with faint hope, "And please, if you do find my wife Janitza... please bring her home."
	After one last ride through the metro system of <origin>, you arrive at your ship. You plug the data card into your computer, and a new "government" shows up: Smuggler. The ships will be colored differently than pirates.
	It may be risky, but you should disable one and board it.
Learn about Keystones
You need to know what the message means by asking Sayari or Teeneep on <planet> before going back to Giti.
As you maneuver to board this ship you send a message telling them that you know they're smugglers and demand their surrender. There is no response, but once you dock and open your side of the airlock, the door to the smuggler ship <origin> also opens partway and a Hai pokes their head through. The Hai's eyes are wide with fear but also determination as they shout at you through the docking tube.
	"Come on, you can do it! Just push a little harder!"
	"There should be an access panel above you! Maybe you can short-circuit the door?"
	The Hai says, "This door is jammed, they're locking down the ship and going to blow it up!" In the background you hear a booming sound. "They're using the keystones, tell them they're using the keystones!"
	Inside your ship you hear alarms blare into full volume and you have just enough time to nod an acknowledgment to the doomed Hai before the airlock's automatic safeties shut it. A moment later, you hear an explosion and the sound of tearing metal as the docking tube is shredded and your ship is forced away from the expanding debris of the smuggler ship. When you return to the controls it seems the smugglers signaled for help before the ship exploded. An escape pod is flying away from the scene; apparently the smugglers care more about not being caught than about finishing their mission.
	You need to relay this to Giti, but the keystones are a Hai thing and that message didn't really explain much; you'll have to contact Sayari or Teeneep first, which means crossing the blockade again. You begin to set a course for <planet>, but your scanners report multiple new contacts; hostile ships entering the system. You prepare for battle.
You scan this smuggling ship and notice only the basic crew are on board. Even so, the ship begins to self-destruct, and escape pods float away, just like before. Just as you wrap up, your ship informs you of incoming hostile ships. You prepare for another wave.
As before, the smugglers set the self-destruct mechanism and abandon their ship and its contents, and your ship detects more incoming hostile vessels. You prepare for another wave.
Missing Researchers
You have the information Giti Gilani will need. It is time to visit her on <planet>.
The progressive search of <origin> still seems to be underway, and a cursory question directed to the Navy personnel now managing the spaceport indicates that they're less than happy about it. Despite the Navy promising to leave as soon as they've searched and confirmed the status of a handful of remaining pirate gangs' hideouts, those gangs remain resolutely hidden and haven't been exposed by any of their compatriots as yet.
	Fortunately this makes it easy to find Sayari, who has comparatively little to do at the moment and is mostly just helping to keep everyone communicating effectively. When you tell her of the system you found and the message from the Hai on the smuggler ship, she winces. "What a terrible fate, but it does confirm what we suspected. We'll have to see what more we can find out in the meantime while we're still bogged down here."
	"What does the Hai's message mean?"
	"Let's make sure that Hai didn't die in vain. What can you tell me?"
	"I have always believed the Keystones were to indicate respect for traditional superstitions. I fear it has lured some Hai into thinking they're trustworthy when they were clearly not. Perhaps there is more though. We have folktales of these stones making travel between the stars easier, and our space once extended to this region where the wormhole is. It is possible there may be a relation."
	She chuckles, "Maybe it is fortunate I insisted you have one for me to travel on your ship. If our quantum keystones have some effect on the wormhole... Please, continue your investigation, talk to whoever you need to talk to, and don't go unprepared. This may be key to a peaceful resolution at the end of all this."
	"What is going on back in Hai space?"
	"How are the Hai recovering from the election?"
	"There's a bit of a problem. Certain people have noticed that you have had close interactions with Teeneep and I through this, and questions have indeed been asked as to whether you are responsible for the mess that was caused by Teeneep going public with the information you helped her find." Her expression is very serious. "We have not told them absolutely every detail, but we have made it clear to your diplomats that the issue was a matter which would have blocked any solution until it was resolved, regardless of if you helped or not. They understand that your involvement has helped move towards a solution, even if parts of it could be misconstrued when seen from the outside."
	You thank her for explaining. Now you definitely need to take the information to Giti. She may be able to use what you've found to predict what preparations should be made.
Go directly to <planet>. Do not pass Go. Do not collect $200.
Searching Beyond the Wormhole
Return to <planet> after finding and scanning the key system beyond the unstable wormhole. The Syndicate will pay <payment>.
You need room for 7t of <cargo>.
Giti or her equipment are in one of your escorts. You need to wait for your escorts to arrive before landing again.
Deputy Director Moray works for Syndicate Internal Affairs dealing with pirate-related matters. In addition to enforcing the law, he also smuggles slaves from pirate worlds into freedom in Syndicate space. He claims to be an ally in this investigation and has provided equipment to further the goal.
Despite expectations, you are told to leave Giti on the ship, and a man who immediately identifies himself to you as Deputy Director Stephen Moray meets you at the entrance of the docking tube at the spaceport and gestures you into the private antechamber attached to each dock in the <origin> port. "I work for Syndicate Internal Affairs. We're the internal police of the Syndicate; when an employee of any rank does misdeeds, we track them down. Janitor or executive; it doesn't matter. My department of Internal Affairs works on piracy-related matters."
	After you both sit, Stephen Moray turns on a device and places it on the table. "Communications jammer," he explains, "so we're not heard."
	"What is this about?"
	"I don't appreciate how your goons treated me."
	He shrugs. "Those 'goons' were from Republic Intelligence. I have no say as to how they do their jobs. Now that you're here, let's get down to business.
	"I know that you have been working closely with the Hai lately, helping to achieve an outcome with lasting stability. I communicated with Remington and he's informed me that while it might appear to an observer that you've caused a mess, that the Hai representatives have now explained that previous stalling on their part was because some things needed to be known first. It would seem that, as per usual, there is as much going on behind the scenes as in front and you have become embroiled in it.
	"I also understand what the Hai are grappling with right now," he says. "When I was a teenager, pirates kidnapped my brother and father, and forced them to serve on pirate vessels, calling them 'indentured servants.' My father watched helplessly as a Navy Frigate disabled my brother's just as it exited hyperspace. He escaped - but he's now serving his seventeenth year of a twenty-five-year sentence for piracy, even though his deeds were against his will," Moray explains as he lays out reports to emphasize his point.
	"I tell you this because it is important you understand I'm on your side. We haven't met before, but we must trust one another. You know the hails of the Navy: loyalty, honor, bravery - half-truths at best. We see the Navy as heroes because they are the only large organization capable of self-sacrifice. Yes, they do many good deeds, but those deeds blind us to their brutality and immorality. Not all humans are like that, many members of the Navy disagree with the barbaric rules about slavery. Some of us in the Syndicate, Free Worlds, and elsewhere, are trying to solve this problem.
	"In my time here, I have arranged for over eighty thousand slaves to be smuggled away from pirate planets to gain their freedom in Syndicate space. I have extensive contacts within the slaver community."
	"I'm glad to see there are good guys in the Syndicate."
	"That's a lot of good deeds for a Syndicate executive."
	"Did that freedom involve 100 hours a week of work in Syndicate factories?"
	He shrugs off your remark. "Now I understand you have found some things, that are also of historic interest to us. For this reason I am doubly invested; so now I need to know what you know."
	It would seem that this is the opportunity to hasten a desirable outcome most swiftly, though maybe the Syndicate doesn't need to know about the Hai's theories of cadmium poisoning from alien technology being used.
	"Here's some case location data on kidnapping victims." (Share only case location data, and don't mention the cadmium poisoning.)
	"I have a lot of data I'd like you to analyze." (Don't mention the cadmium poisoning, but share all other data.)
	Director Moray looks through some of the data you share while you summarize the key points. "Thank you very much, we will have our experts go over this promptly."
	With your explanation finished, he seems to straighten in preparation for something. "I have some leads to follow up. Someone has an extensive array of contacts, possibly close to home in the Syndicate - perhaps even executives, but for certain at least a department head somewhere. This is too much to be entirely independent. I can say for sure though that they're doing this without permission from the Syndicate proper.
	"The Hai have insisted they be involved in any solution which could involve captured Hai. Which means I will have to send you back to them soon, but before that I need information. So do you, but my due diligence demands I ensure you are properly equipped to retrieve what I need. Take Giti and the scanning equipment I am now loading onto your ship. I recommend a ramscoop for safety. Investigate the systems and bring her back here, after that you'll have to go back to the Hai without her."
	He pauses while getting ready to leave. "Oh, and you should probably tell her about the Hai at this point. We don't know if she knows, but if she doesn't she needs to know the basics. The scanners will flag anything we can explicitly identify as Hai tech, so the time has come. Good luck."
During the trip you take the time to tell Giti the basics about the Hai. She had already known they existed, but hadn't been privy to any details of what was going on now. Knowing that the disappearances you've been hunting extend to Hai space seems to answer more questions than it creates and she takes the revelation of how significant this is to current events easily in stride.
Giti turns on the scanning equipment.
	"Tell me about the moon."
	"Tell me about that planet."
	"We found what we need. Let's get out before we're noticed."
	"Okay, the planet..." Her voice trails off. "Wow! That's odd. This scanner is definitely not designed to properly scan this thing; I can only get surface readings.
	"Whatever it is, this planet is not normal by any stretch. It is completely inhospitable and appears to have a huge network of caves and caverns with crystalline structures that are radiating... something. Whatever it is, it's messing with the scanner's attempts to identify it. I'd have to know more about this scanner's functions to guess what the interference is. There's deuterium, though. Maybe the denizens of this system siphon the deuterium to make hyperspace fuel? Doesn't seem very efficient, but the solar wind is thin here. There's some kind of gravitational anomaly though, or maybe its just some kind of interference lensing. It looks like the planet has about a thousand times the mass it should, but with gravity around Earth normal. That... can't be right."
	She shakes it off and looks at you. "Whatever it is we're looking for, it's not down there."
	"The moon? Hmmm... okay, it's just an ordinary chunk of rock, but radiation from the planet is disturbing the sensors. I can only see a few dozen meters below ground, even though the scanner should be able to look down at least ten times that far... Aha!
	"I found something. There's a facility buried in the moon's surface. There is definitely a lot of Hai tech too, your concerns were spot on. I can only see the uppermost part of the facility, but it appears to be divided into two parts. One section has hydroponics, big cargo bays, docking bays for ships, even a small shipyard. Doesn't look like they have space for more than a handful of large ships, though. It also seems to have the only decently sized air processor I can identify. The other section is deeper, and appears to have some spacious living areas. I can see some support systems, but it seems that the air supply is effectively controlled from the surface access section. I can detect 1,387 people, though no details about them, and that's just in the upper three floors that I can see."
	She looks at you, eyes wide. "This isn't just a base; there's a base down there, but it's controlling a whole colony."
	There is a pregnant pause for a moment and then she suddenly gasps. "Captain, this must be Elenchus!"
	As you say this, you notice on your regular sensors that there are some ships heading your way and, more horrifyingly, some ground-based turrets coming online. It's time to go.
Report the Discovery to Teeneep
Return to <planet> and explain what you have found about Elenchus to Teeneep.
When you return to <origin>, Moray reclaims his scanning equipment and requests Giti's assistance with providing testimony to those interpreting it. She still may not know everything that's going on, but by this point she knows more than enough that she's happy to be able to assist in some way.
	Now there's nothing for it but to head straight on to <planet>.
Rendezvous with the Assault Team
Return to <planet> and explain what you have found.
When you return to <origin> to tell Teeneep what you have found, she seems to already know much of what you have to say. "We've been waiting for you. Thanks to your visit to the Syndicate, we've found a lot of information in very short order. You'll have to lead another international task force through the wormhole at Devil-Eye. This time, they'll have jump drives from the Unfettered, which the Hai are renting for quite a hefty price. We expect all jump drives to be returned intact. Everyone is gathering to brief you on the status so you can prepare for the mission. A high-ranking Marshal Kaine is here with more information."
	Sayari seems anxious when she joins you on the way, and the two of them draw you along towards one of the meeting areas in the secured spaceport. There you are led past a selection of Navy personnel on guard into a meeting room with several people. Some appear to have just arrived, but others must have been here for a while, and to your surprise Alondo and Remington are also present. The place looks to have been acting as a war room of sorts. As soon you've walked through the door, someone says, "We're all here," and Choot'k and Remington stand up from where they'd been looking at something intently.
	"I see new faces here. Can everyone introduce themselves?"
	"What have you found about the smuggling routes?"
	"How have you dealt with the smugglers so far?"
	"How do the Hai feel about the approach to the smugglers?"
	"Are you still able to keep the Hai a secret?"
	"What do you know about Elenchus?"
	"How will we penetrate the Elenchus defenses?"
	"We've discussed enough. It's time to get started."
	Remington looks at you. "I know it's rough when news travels ahead of you, but Moray's team identified two bases which act as holding facilities in human space for the previously unidentified group that you've been investigating. That's where the largest number of kidnapped Hai have been taken for processing, before being taken to this mysterious 'Elenchus' place you've found. One of the bases is on Deadman's Cove, and arrangements are already being made to deal with it, but the other one is right here on Stormhold.
	"This operation narrowed down our remaining search here to a single target in one area up in the north. It should take us no more than a few days to pinpoint it, and a few days more to plan and execute an action against it." He shrugs. "The information was just too important to delay it for your arrival. That, and they decided they wanted me here personally since Terry appears to be busy off doing something else."
	Marshal Kaine continues, "While there is intel on some captured Hai in the North, we have worked out a program to address that side of things more subtly, and with a lower risk to all parties involved. Raiding pirate ships is a deadly affair and their bases more so. While it may seem heroic, even with the help of the Hai, the casualty rate is unsustainable. However, while they may be allowed to go by intact, we have much better tabs on slaver and smuggler ships in the north, so we have options that don't require the sort of thorough manhunt that's occurring here to be effective."
	Sayari speaks up. "The Elders have accepted the proposed plans, but with this new information we have decided that this organization you've uncovered must still be dealt with directly. It is our main concern now. As long as the Republic remains willing to negotiate on how they deal with smugglers in the future, resolving this one issue will be sufficient for us to move forward. The overwhelming majority of the other groups who appear to have been exploiting Hai seem to have been here on <origin> and so we consider there to have been serious inroads made into resolving the problem more broadly."
	Remington responds. "Good point. I don't think everyone here knows everyone yet."
	You look around the room as Remington does introductions for the benefit of the new people, and counts off Teeneep, Sayari, Choot'k, Batu, Danforth, Adurath Kaine - a Marshal for the Navy, which is an ex-service political appointment - Alondo, and himself.
	Remington clearly did not need to be introduced, but doing so gives him a disarming charm, and you see for a moment some of the charisma that he must utilize as head of PR.
	Marshal Kaine introduces himself to you directly. "I'm the Marshal of the Third Armada, the guards of the Far North and the uninhabited regions near it. I know you've worked with my admiral William Danforth in the past, and he has spoken highly of your work. I'm here because occasionally the Navy needs a politician, and the politicians need someone from the service that understands politicians."
	Batu jumps in. "The Marshal has been very effective in helping to develop some solutions with Hiyamaharu, and has just arrived here to make sure everything is set in order."
	Remington explains. "This operation has gone on long enough that the popular opinion is that the Hai must obviously exist, even though there are no explicit voices saying as such. It has in fact almost become a joke; the perception being that, 'The Navy are blockading the Hai to hide humanity from them, because the blockade isn't doing a good job of being inconspicuous.' There have been memes of the Navy hiding their ships behind far too narrow light poles while they distract a squirrel with their headlights. Now it's a matter of being able to present good news. Place a successful spin on things."
	"Our problem," says Kaine, "is Elenchus."
	Marshal Kaine explains, "Reaching Elenchus would seem to be a problem, because it is behind systems we cannot reach with our hyperdrives. However, the Unfettered are willing to loan us a few jump drives. Additionally, the base on Elenchus appears to be a hardened target. It will need specialized and suitably equipped shock troops to be sure of taking it. In our assessment so far we have determined that the Syndicate have suitable troopers they can mobilize quickly, but no way of getting them there, and our suitable shock troops are largely pre-occupied; either being needed here on <origin>, or are at least a week away from being available. We need a resolution sooner than that."
	"What pressure is making this so urgent?"
	"Yes, clearly we need a quick resolution."
	Kaine sighs, and responds. "The thing about governments is that all crises are either to be solved, delayed, or weathered. This crisis cannot be delayed, and so they must choose to weather or resolve. There are enough representatives who feel that their positions are too fragile to weather it, and so they have pushed to resolve. The timeline is set by their perception of the urgency." He looks to the Hai. "And obviously, there are also those who value our historic relationship with the Hai and seek to resolve it for those reasons too. Those are only the first two reasons on a long list. At the end of the day, it's politics."
	Teeneep explains, "We also need a way to deal with the surface turrets and, short of bringing overwhelming firepower which we do not have, there's only one ship available with the systems to be able to affect that within our timeline. That ship is my Centipede. I had electronic warfare systems installed on it to baffle pirate defenses when I was investigating this before. It is our assessment that I should be able to baffle the turrets long enough to deal with any spaceship defenders, and land where the turrets will no longer matter." She looks to Choot'k. "The General has generously offered to loan a drive for my use."
	Choot'k addresses the group. "The designs of the facility show a weak point in one of the hangars, which we can exploit. My flagship has weapons pillaged from another species, which are strong enough to cut open the hangar doors yet precise enough not to destroy the hangar.
	"I also have two trusted captains who have been exploring the value of human weapons while they've been here, and think they have some winning combinations they would like to test in battle. I have chosen them to make use of our remaining available drives, and out of consideration for you humans. It would seem that the fewer alien weapons we carry through your space, the better."
	Marshal Kaine nods in agreement. "We have all the pieces. The solution therefore, is this: <last> will escort Danforth's Cruiser, the Elder and her Centipede, the General and his Shield Beetle, and two of his closest captains to Foundry. There you'll meet up with Agent Kopkow and Captain Wallace - a decorated Navy captain who has a Parliamentary Medal of Valor for handling the rescue of slaves - who will be bringing her empty Auxiliary, and one Free World Dreadnought that the good Alondo here had the foresight to make sure was stationed nearby. There you'll load up the Syndicate troopers and go to Elenchus."
	Kaine looks at you all with an odd expression and concludes, "As plans go, it's mental. But every one of you will be heroes if you can pull it off."
	General Choot'k says, "I look forward to joining your people in combat. We haven't had enough chances to fight with - or against - your species. I hope we won't be disappointed."
	"I can vouch for the skill of our people, but not the pirates," Kaine replies, smiling.
	Danforth turns to you, "So, Captain, to Foundry, when you're ready."
You are provided <payment> on arrival to cover ongoing expenses while helping out.
You've arrived on <planet>, but you've left one or more of your escorts behind.
"Bufaer" Atomic Steering
"Biroo" Atomic Steering
Storm Elenchus
Dominate <planet>. Land with Choot'k, Teeneep, Danforth and Wallace's ships all intact...
You arrive on Foundry to a little-used spaceport which usually sees only private, Syndicate executive vessels. Kopkow gives you a mildly apologetic smile as he greets you for the second time, and introduces you to Captain Anna Wallace. She expresses her satisfaction that some serious efforts are being made to stem the plague of slavery that pirate factions get away with. Apparently many officers like her disagree with the Navy's standard non-boarding policy. They want to rescue slaves whenever possible, regardless of risk or orders.
	Just Wallace speaking seems to make Kopkow nervous to move on though; in fact he appears very stressed at the present. Kopkow explains, "It's becoming increasingly difficult to cover up the existence of the Hai."
	"We only need to maintain the ruse a little longer."
	"You don't know that we've given up on that?"
	"Is it still working at all?"
	"Our ruse is getting preposterous. The captains at Ultima Thule already know about the Hai, but we had to tell the crews that we were dealing with a major pirate threat. We hired a few pirate gangs to fly through the area to back our story. The Shield Beetles you've just flown here have been explained away as experimental ship designs from the movie production being tested out. Still though, our cover stories have passed the point of plausibility into the realm of barefaced lying. I hope you can finish this without too many more public displays, otherwise we won't be able to hide the Hai anymore."
	He blinks at you, "Wait, what?"
	"We've decided on an end point to this deception?"
	You explain how they're just trying to keep things going long enough to resolve this mission. It is like a load has been lifted off the man, although he takes it in his stride fairly professionally.
	"Of course, nobody tells me anything in a timely manner..."
	"Anyway, I've organized the Syndicate's 'hostile urban insertion security operatives' to be loaded onto the Auxiliary. They look like intelligence operatives, if you ask me, so that'll be a conversation for me to follow up on later, but for now they're specially trained for attacking pirate strongholds and equipped with state of the art equipment that... is on a need-to-know basis. As long as we can protect the Auxiliary we'll be fine. The intel you brought back doesn't suggest particularly strong resistance. Wallace, good luck."
	"It's good to hear you have the ground combat situation under control."
	"That equipment sounds ominous."
	Kopkow gives you a disturbing smile that has an 'I love my work' appearance. He departs as everyone else assembles.
	"It's more of a collaboration, really, but like I said: need-to-know basis." He nods to you and departs as everyone else assembles.
	After a large meeting about logistics, and an unsurmountable buffet, everyone disperses. General Choot'k finds you to discuss critical tactical matters.
	"There's a problem with the plan," he says, "which we found after more analysis of the scans. The bay where we need to land already has ships inside, and if we try to fly in there, they'll blow us to pieces. You have lure them out and kill them all."
	"How do I lure them out?"
	"Can't we blow them up on the way down?"
	"Have you ever tried to land on a pile of blown-up space ships in the wreck of a spaceport a half kilometer underground? It ain't easy."
	Choot'k looks amused by your surprise at his pointed use of a colloquialism. Maybe one day you should investigate how and why the Unfettered learn your language. In the meantime, not blowing up your landing site is a sufficient lesson.
	"I've spent a lot of time interrogating pirate leaders these past few weeks, and they all have one thing in common: narcissism. Threaten their precious egos, and they'll fight when they should hide. All you have to do is demand tribute from their planet and the fools will rush out and fight you.
	"The pirates won't believe it if we demand the tribute, but they will believe it if you demand it. Then their defense fleets will rush out. You have to defeat them on your own to maintain the ruse. Eventually they'll give up and pay tribute. That's when we know it's safe to land."
	"Sounds good. I look forward to the tribute payments."
	"Why do I have to do that myself?"
	"In your culture, governments don't demand tribute from enemy planets." He shrugs. "The pirates will see it as an obvious trap if we do it. You, though? They'll see a pilot taking advantage of the situation. Just lure them out, and blow them up, while we hold off any incoming ships."
	"Why won't our fleet help me destroy the pirates coming from the planet?"
	"Ah, they could, but they won't. Consider it a test. I want to see you prove yourself in battle before I open the entrance to <planet>."
	He seems to admire your ship for a moment. "If you succeed today you shall be Hai-friend, wherever you go."
To complete this mission, you must land with Choot'k, Teeneep, Danforth and Wallace's ships all present in the system and intact...
Right after the fleet takes off, Danforth hails you. "We have just received additional fighters and drones from the Syndicate, please wait for them before jumping."
Teeneep sends out a message to the fleet informing you that she is engaging the electronic warfare baffling and reminds you that everyone needs to get onto the ground intact if this is to go well. Choot'k's Shield Beetle has red engine flares; the others have blue. So if he gets into trouble you should be able to tell at a distance. The baffling won't work forever, so get to it.
	(NOTE: You need to dominate this planet to finish the battle. To do that, talk to the planet and demand tribute. The planet will send multiple waves of defense fleets. Demand tribute after defeating the final wave, and they'll agree. Then land to finish the mission.)
	(WARNING: The allies you are escorting will not help you fight the defense fleets sent in response to your tribute demands, but they will fight any other pirate ships in the system.)
To finish this mission, you must destroy all defending pirate vessels, and land with Choot'k, Teeneep, Danforth and Wallace's ships all present in the system and intact...
You have failed an essential mission. To complete this story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
Take them Home
Escort the Hai back to <planet>. Payment to cover your ongoing expenses is <payment>.
To finish this mission, you need to wait for Teeneep, Choot'k, and Danforth's ships to arrive and then land again.
Formerly a pirate stronghold, this city built by generations of kidnapped specialists is a hundred twenty years old now. Humans, Hai, and even Korath live peacefully, working side-by-side, and most have no desire to leave. They value their independence and have refused Republic membership. This city orbits a strange world that defies analysis in a region of space untouched by civilization.
General Choot'k cuts open the doors of a large hangar, and your ships land. The two hundred Syndicate operatives pour out, wearing exoskeletons with high density armor plating and equipped with all manner of weapons and gadgetry. They storm through the complex and you follow in their wake. Their tools melt through security locks in seconds, and most of their opposition lacks protection against the suits' stun gas bombs. With pirates focusing their efforts on the imposing suits, the Unfettered make many attacks of opportunity, inflicting massive casualties. The pirates outnumber the attackers ten to one, but this huge advantage in equipment, training, and discipline gives the attackers an overwhelming advantage.
	The squads move room to room, neutralizing all opposition with ease, until their opponents switch tactics. The pirates begin using electromagnetic pulse devices to shut down the Syndicate suits (and all other electronics nearby), leaving affected operatives helpless for ten long seconds. Here, some of General Choot'k's Unfettered show their strength, outmaneuvering the pirates long enough for the suits to recharge. They dart between operatives and bound off walls with Pulse Rifles and long knives. They strike rapidly and in an organized manner, before withdrawing as the operatives suits re-engage, preventing the pirates from coordinating a counter-assault.
	After a bloody struggle, forty-three operatives reach the end of the fight, clearing the way to a blast door. Only a couple dozen operatives are known to be seriously wounded, but many have been missing since the pirates switched tactics and began using traps and machinery to pin, crush, or disable the operatives or their suits. The Unfettered fared comparatively better, as the pirates focused most attacks on the Syndicate operatives, letting the fast, maneuverable Hai pass through. Still, over a dozen of them will take their own tails home as trophies, after the pirates used a miner's cutting power-arm extensions to great effect.
	The blast door that the force now stands before is twelve meters high and wide, and scanners show it to be six meters deep. It is designed to be closed from this side, though, and has not been sealed well against being reopened. Soon it grinds open but, evidently sabotaged, only part-way. Despite this attempt, the operatives put on their goggles and easily pass through into the darkness of the next room.
	You could be forgiven for hesitating to follow them, but General Choot'k appears beside you and places one strong paw on your shoulder. "Come, now. We will discover if our task is finished or impossible. It is time for bravery." He guides you in after the operatives, along with his own troops.
	"Lead on."
	"Treating me like a coward? That's grounds for a duel."
	"Heh heh," he laughs in a low voice. "Maybe soon."
	It's pitch black when you enter, but scanners show the room is a vast cavern, some sort of public space suitable for ten thousand people or more. As the last of the troops file in, a second blast door closes behind you. High roof lights snap on making the room as bright as day in the blink of an eye.
	You see before you scores of pirates, corralled and held captive by an equally large crowd of heavily-armed civilians - all of which are hesitantly pointing guns at the operatives. It seems the citizens arranged a violent rebellion to coincide with the Republic's attack. Three unarmed civilians wearing distinctive hooded robes walk towards the operatives: one Hai, one human, and to your surprise one lizard-like Korath. The leader of the Syndicate operatives exits her suit and approaches them.
	The Hai speaks. "We are the leaders of the civilian government of Elenchus. Although we are grateful for your assistance in defeating our violent rulers, we will not accept your dominion either. We have heard of your civil war. Elenchus is an independent nation, and we intend to stay so unless you intend to force otherwise. I can, however, promise that unlike our overlords, we have no interest in anything other than peace. We will send no military ships through the wormhole.
	After several hours of discussion, Agent Kopkow prepares the documents for the provisional recognition of the new "Elenctic Commune" with Admiral Danforth and Captain Wallace as witnesses. The wounded are finally attended to in the Elenctic hospital facilities, and most of the human operatives pack up their gear and return to the Auxiliary. Meanwhile, Teeneep and Choot'k go to lengths to engage with the Hai here and discover what they would best like to do.
	"Thank you. I have a few questions for you before I go."
	"I wish you a successful future with your newfound freedom. For now, it is time for me to depart."
	"Do you want me to take you home?"
	"Do you know anything about the cadmium poisoning?"
	"What can you tell me about this city?"
	"What do you do here?"
	"What do you know about this area of space?"
	"How did the Korath get here?"
	"Can you speak to other Korath for me?"
	"It was a pleasure meeting you," says the human leader.
	The Korath leader speaks, with a thick, sibilant accent. "Several generations ago, three of our raiding ships jumped to the Alcyone system. Numerous pirate vessels left Stormhold and disabled our ships. A large human ship boarded our flagship, and used what you call 'nerve gas' to kill the entire crew. The death is excruciatingly painful to Korath. The pirates broadcast the footage over to us, so we could see the screaming. Not wanting that fate, most of the raiders on the other Korath ships surrendered. We worked as slaves for the pirate gangs, but now we're here, safe, and free. We are not specialists or their descendants like the others here, but we have other talents.
	"The pirates must defend this planet against a space-based lifeform that attacks in flocks. Our ships gave them a significant advantage. Fortunately, we have one more left to defend against any threats." The Korath eyes the Syndicate operatives as he waits for the translator to catch up.
	"I must ask you keep the presence of Korath here a secret. If the Archons or other Exiles hear of this place, they may attack to retrieve us, or the Exiles may simply pillage. We will remain here in hiding unless the Exiles finally learn to settle on their planet."
	The Korath leader hisses. "No, we cannot. We here do not even speak a full form of our own language anymore. Even if we did, we must remain here in secret. Perhaps in time there there will be a reconnection, but not yet."
	The Korath leader looks to the Hai, who responds, "Is that how you were led back here?"
	"Indirectly," you reply.
	The Hai leader continues, "Fascinating, we always wondered if it would pique someone's attention! Our Korath friends have ships equipped with these remarkable "Systems Cores", which are apparently vital to all Korath ships. None of the surviving Korath had the knowledge to replicate it, but they were asked to try and many of them have an uncanny knack for engineering. With their help, we attempted to build some equivalents of our own. Being not quite right, they work, but they fuse irrevocably with the ship, and some flaw in their function causes cadmium particulate. The cadmium is shed by the system maintenance processes into the air, where it is recirculated, and ignored by the system intended to filter it out since it's a part of the system itself."
	The human leader adds, "We worked out how to reduce that effect to safe levels, but kept that information to ourselves in the hope that it would draw some attention. It tended to make the pirates sick more often than anyone else, which also seemed to mean that more of their victims escaped."
	The three leaders laugh, and the Hai answers. "We are home. Most of us were born here, or have lived most of our adult lives here. This is a place of learning, where three races join as one to progress together. Even several of the new arrivals had few connections back in Hai space and have viewed this place as a grand new novelty. An adventure without compare. Some recent kidnapping victims wish to leave, of course, and we will help you find them and send them home."
	The Korath speaks next. "Where my people came from, everyone was starving, barely subsisting. We had to raid for supplies, or slave away in bleak factory stations. This is a much better place for us."
	The human leader concludes, "Most of the humans in this city have been here for several generations. This has always been home to us."
	"It must seem strange to you," the human replies, "but I shall explain. This place was founded over a hundred and twenty years ago by anarchists from the colony of Freedom. Their community had been working within the Syndicate for a long time, evolving into anarcho-syndicalists that worked to bring the Syndicate down from within. At some point they discovered this place after stealing a drive and other paraphernalia that were unearthed from a construction site on Foundry. With the Syndicate on its doorstep and difficult access requirements, they saw the potential in this place but needed more manpower to exploit it. To do this, they allied with less peaceful anarchists and pirates. Those less savory types kidnapped researchers and engineers, forcing them to expand the base and devise new weapons or medicines. They eventually inherited control here after the syndicalists were wiped out. Our city also has manufacturing facilities where we created goods the pirates could not easily build in human space, where their facilities are destroyed regularly.
	"There have been various attempts to take the spaceport and the city by force or by money. Early on, there were attempts by Alpha groups, and then various illegal organizations who tracked this place down from rumors about their rivals. There was even someone from the Syndicate who came with his personal fleet. There are those who have controlled this place by controlling the spaceport and treating with us, and there are those who have tried to force their way in here and bend us to their will. None of them returned home from the latter attempts. Some used chemical or biological weapons, others sent ships. Many offered money or favors. Elenchus has always been an independent country, and with control of our own spaceport, perhaps we always will be.
	"Now that the pirates are gone, us civilians may govern without fear, and for that you have our gratitude. As expendable upper regions of the spaceport have already been destroyed, we have little to fear from attack by space creatures in the short-term, and soon we'll have our shipyards and facilities at full capacity again, such that we may defend ourselves.
	"We won't ever join the Republic or any other government beyond the wormhole, but you personally will always be welcome, along with those you trust, for what you have done today. Our research and manufacturing facilities are damaged now, but as they are repaired, we will make them available to you."
	"We're scientists, engineers, philosophers, people of learning. Intergenerational traditions of knowledge and scholarship are strong here. There are laboratories and workshops throughout this city where we work on all manner of things. We seek knowledge. This place is far from being a paradise, but it is a community that strives together. Under the pirates we were allowed this freedom, as they realized it was the most effective way to get results that helped them. Now that our most recent abusive masters are gone, we need not have our priorities guided by their violent motives."
	"Of course, this is also a city. People have lived here for several generations, multiplying fruitfully. We have had to carve out more and more of the moon. There is plenty of space left before our growth will have to stop."
	"Very little. The pirates wouldn't let us leave the planet, and jump drives are precious to them. They cannot risk drives on science expeditions. Still, we have managed a few trips under different regimes."
	"There is no evidence that any civilization has ever reached this region of space until us, and this system is not native to the others around it. It was flung from our galaxy millions of years ago, and is still traveling relatively fast. One day, far from now, this system will pass beyond even this loose collection of systems that it is now close to. There are also many space-faring indigenous creatures that live in gas giants, and sometimes venture beyond. Most are harmless, so long as you leave them alone. There are flocking apex predators who hunt anything that moves.
	"The planet below is a mystery to us. It has a thousand times the mass it realistically should, and its gravitational field reads as such from a great distance. This tremendous gravitational field sustains the large asteroid belt. Despite its incredible mass, as you approach the surface, the field does not increase at anywhere near the rate that it should. Thus, when you stand upon it, the gravity is only similar to that of Earth. There are many forms of radiation and strange materials inside the planet's caves. We believe it is a relic from a forgotten past, but we have no idea what sort of relic it is. Perhaps, now that we are not developing pirate weapons, we can focus on exploration."
	There is one last critical matter to be addressed with the three representatives and you raise it with them. "Did we have all of the leaders of this group? Are they all accounted for?"
	They consult with some of their people who have been scouring the spaceport, helping to account for both the living, and the dead on both sides. At length, just the human comes to you.
	"Your question was wise. There is one unaccounted for. Before I tell you, though, I think perhaps you should know more than you do." They reach up and push back their hood, revealing a bald head, as they gesture to the city in general. To your surprise you realize for the first time that they are a woman, though that seems like it could be the least important part of their identity.
	"What do you wish to tell me?"
	"I've had enough history lessons for one day. Can you tell me the leader's name?"
	"Many different overlords we have had, and always they have relied on recruits from the city for some capacities while rallying other lesser groups to their banner. As such, ever have there been factions. Some, kinder than others."
	They look at you meaningfully. "There was a factional shift in progress here before you arrived. A little over a decade ago, for the first time in a century, a new anarcho-syndicalist faction from Freedom took over the control of the spaceport and reclaimed the mantle of our original founders who called themselves 'Base Principles'. While we as a city didn't particularly care, there were some who sympathized with them more than most. As overlords went they were, fair enough. After only a decade, and despite significantly greater access to resources than their predecessors, their control was already slipping. Deviants and extremists who lacked the capacity to subscribe to a nuanced view had supplanted most of their major players. If they did not succeed in their quest imminently, they were already doomed to be replaced. Still, they were nevertheless exploitative overlords, and we don't pity them... but their goals were more noble than most.
	"I tell you all this because I suspect you must seek out this one leader who is unaccounted for, and you should do so with all the knowledge at your disposal. The one leader who is not here was the last major player from the new 'Base Principles'. I do not know where your loyalties lie, so I ask you: why do you wish to know?"
	They sigh. "The one leader who is not here was the last major player from the new 'Base Principles'. I do not know where your loyalties lie, so I ask you: why do you wish to know?"
	"I do not, but I must, out of duty."
	"I wish to know, for the Hai."
	"I wish to know, for the Syndicate."
	"I wish to know, for the people."
	They regard you thoughtfully. "You are well suited to the neutral ground. It is little wonder you are here as an agent of no single faction. That is appropriate then.
	They incline their head respectfully. "The Hai are perhaps the greatest valuers of truth among us. If they have set you to this, then they will be honored by your diligence.
	They focus on you closely. "The Syndicate is perhaps the most impressive machine ever wrought by man. It is worthy of both respect and fear, and will do to people as any machine does to the product of its design. Treat it as such and it will always do precisely what you expect it to; both good and bad.
	They lift their head and smile. "A promise made is a promise kept. If your word is your bond then it would not do for me to stand in its way.
	"The missing leader you seek is embedded within the Syndicate and is known by the name Terry Adrianopoulos."
	"Terry did this!?"
	"I suspected as much."
	Their words scratch an itch of suspicion that you didn't realize had been irritating you until now. They smirk knowingly. "I have merely confirmed that which you already guessed. Very well, I need say no more. This matter is yours to do with as you will." They leave you to ponder your course.
	They smile with subtle mirth at your surprise. "I see you know of this person but did not suspect. I think it is to you, and you alone, I shall impart this knowledge. Do with it as you will." They leave you to ponder your course.
	As you return to your ship, Teeneep interrupts you. "I need you to escort me one last time, Captain <last>. I must return to <planet> to resolve things now that the threat is ended. You will be well-paid, of course."
	Anticipating your next question, she says, "The ships of the Unfettered Hai will be escorted back with us, since the Elenctics are convinced they are at no risk and still have a ship at their disposal. Some of those who came as crew on the Unfettered vessels have chosen to remain here and join the Elenctics. More than enough bunks have subsequently been freed to return those who have chosen to come home with us. Danforth will come with us, but the other human vessels will make their way home themselves. Now we must rejoin our people on <planet> and set about resolving this matter for good, finally."
Pick up the Deputy Minister at <stopovers> and escort Teeneep's ship back to <destination>.
To finish this mission, you need to wait for Teeneep and Choot'k's ships to arrive and then land again.
Your arrival on <origin> is met with much fanfare. In your absence the remaining staging ground here was eventually found and purged, and an agreement of sorts has been made between the Republic authorities and the remaining major players here - or at least those whose lists of possible crimes aren't so long and well-evidenced as to be arrested for appearing. The hope is that after such a thorough purge, <origin> will manage to be less of a source of problems for a while, but the expectation is merely that people smuggling will no longer be an industry that is widely tolerated by the local powers that be.
	The Unfettered are treated as heroes by both their comrades and the other Hai crews as they return to the fold. This causes some, like Remington and Alondo, to share some concerned looks among each other and have a number of surreptitious chats with Danforth and Marshal Kaine, but the distinction between the two groups remains pronounced throughout.
	Once people have had a chance to get sorted Teeneep approaches you again. "There will be much work in the future, but for now it is time to return to <planet>. I have been too long away, and there are obligations to be discharged. I have returned the borrowed jump drive, so we should pick up the Deputy Minister from Mountaintop on the way."
"Basrem" Atomic Steering
The Aphid is the lightest freighter used by the Hai and was for many millennia the backbone of the Hai interplanetary economy. Because of how peaceful Hai space has been for much of its history, Aphids only come with basic defenses as stock, and rely on larger Hai ships for more serious protection.
"Benga" Atomic Thruster
The introduction of humans to the Hai civilization has led to a substantial amount of cultural exchange. While some may argue that pickled acorns have been the greatest product of this relationship, many more will point to this luxury transport ship. The product of human-Hai cooperation from the project's inception, the Centipede was released around the turn of the 31st century, but has already become quite popular among Hai fleets.
A design nearly as old as the Aphid, practically no new Cicadas have been built in recent memory; it is so reliable that the second-hand market is saturated Cicadas that have outlived not just one pilot, but in many cases multiple whole lineages of Hai that have owned one and passed it down through the generations. This feature is likely the main factor which has kept the popularity of the Scarab in check as well as defining the Yeer e Ki shipyard's motto: "Service for Life".
"Baellie" Atomic Engines
This combat drone is built to amplify the strength of any combat force for as few credits as possible. It was designed in conjunction with the tactical recoil of the Railgun to allow it to kite its targets, prolonging its combat efficacy while it supports its allies with debilitating ion damage.
	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay.
After large human freighters began to out-compete traditionally smaller Hai ships, the Hai responded by developing the Geocoris: a heavy freighter that surpassed anything humanity had to offer at the time.
Designed by the Hai to serve as a fast reconnaissance craft, the Grasshopper has been adopted by thrill-seekers and miners alike. At the same time, it is often used by Hai captains who are looking for effective protection at a low cost.
The Lightning Bug is a small defensive ship, mostly used by the Hai as a convoy escort. The Lightning Bug, as with many insects, works best in a swarm: even a small number of Lightning Bugs can manage to leave the largest of ships helpless with their stock-fitted Ion Cannons.
These sensor-laden exploration vessels hail back to a more peaceful era of the Hai. Though they have no true ramscoop, a technology the Hai never developed, their built-in collection gills magnify the natural ramscoop present in all ships. These expensive features are the reason the ship has been replaced with the Lightning Bug.
However, this ship has seen combat in recent years against human pirates. With room for plentiful shield regeneration, good maneuverability, and the range to strike deep in pirate territory, their long sleep has ended.
"Bondir" Atomic Thruster
The Hai upgraded their original Pond Strider after acquiring hull repair technology through alien diplomacy. These improvements have greatly reduced casualties in their conflict with the Unfettered, since the light Pond Striders become vulnerable as they collect damaged drones. Besides enabling the ship to repair damaged drones, the Hai have cleverly innovated the Railgun to make the Pond Strider and Fleas into very efficient combat support for their fleets.
The Sea Scorpion was designed several decades ago to serve as a mobile platform to launch Trackers. However, it is only recently that the Unfettered have been able to mass produce them. While individually vulnerable, the reduced cost of manufacturing compared to Shield Beetles allow the materially inferior Unfettered to gain a numerical advantage against their brethren.
The hard-working cousin to the Lightning Bug, the Scarab has only ever grown in popularity, never declined. That this statistic is occasionally measured in thousandths of a percentage point for years at a time is immaterial to the title. This lightweight transport is commonly the pick for Grasshopper pilots looking to make money while continuing to feed their free spirit. It is also large enough to transport a large Hai family, making it perfect for nearly any odd job in Hai space.
This ship was first built millennia ago, near the end of a more violent time in Hai history. Since then, it has served as the only heavy warship at the disposal of the Hai. The Shield Beetle is a versatile warship used by the Hai to guard their merchant convoys, or by the Unfettered to attack those very same convoys.
Impressed by the Alpha's "Giftbringer," the Unfettered endeavored to build their own fighter carrier to take more advantage of their supply of jump drives.
The Hai fighter is equipped with what most humans would consider the greatest technology available, but all of that high tech comes at a cost.
"Basrem" Reverse Thruster
The design of the Water Bug is almost as old as the Aphid, but until recently it never saw much use. A spike in aggression from the Unfettered Hai has led the tougher and more well-defended Water Bug to see an increase in popularity over its little brother, the Aphid. The Water Bug is now the most widely used Hai freighter, comprising the bulk of all Hai merchant fleets.
Concerned citizen
Reporter
Merchant captain
Worried parent
Bystander
Pug war survivor
Conspiracy theorist
I never realized how vulnerable we were until the Pug attacked Earth.
I always suspected there were more aliens than the Quarg, but I never thought they would be so hostile.
I hear the Pug were so frail we could squish them. How can a race so weak get such powerful ships?
The Pug went easy on us, if you ask me. I bet they have ships far more powerful, hiding among the stars. Why didn't they use them?
Did you hear about the shattered ringworld? How did the Pug destroy a structure so strong, and why?
Why didn't our governments discover the Pug before they got so strong?
Why didn't the Pug attack earlier?
I wonder if the Quarg know about the Pug?
Are the Pug really evil, or do they have some kind of plan for us?
I thought it was just humans and Quarg in this galaxy, until we met the Pug. How many other alien races are out there? Are we ready for them?
Do the Pug even see us as people? They act like we're just stories in a big game of theirs.
I bet the Pug caused the Ten Plagues. And World War II, and the Great Chinese Famine, and the Yangtze river floods, and the Black Plague, and the Minoan Eruption, and the Alpha Wars, and the fall of the Tower of Babel, and...
Did you hear about the smashed ringworld? I bet that came from a Pug-Quarg war. If the Quarg can't beat the Pug, why did we win our war?
Accursed Quarg. I never trust anyone twice my size. Yes, I'm a meter and a half tall. Stop laughing.
The Quarg always treat us like little kids when we visit. That's so rude.
I never trusted those Quarg with their strange side-blinking eyes, and I never will!
I wonder if the Quarg have been manipulating our society for millennia. Or was it the Pug? Or another alien race? Biblical plagues? World War II? How many atrocities did they cause?
I'm never going to a Quarg planet again. I swear they read your mind and plant nightmares within. I keep dreaming of mighty space-cockroaches, reptiles, and big robot-ships. Owls! Owls everywhere!
I saw a video of a big I-shaped ship shooting Syndicate vessels. I wonder if it was faked?
They say there are strange vessels at the edge of the core which keep attacking human ships. Do you think they're Pug?
A merchant was flying me back from one of the frontier core worlds, and we were attacked by a ship as big as a carrier. The engines were so hot they glowed.
Nobody believes me, but I think there is another alien race out in the far east near the core.
I keep having nightmares of reptiles in fiery ships. Why won't my nightmares end? Please make my nightmares end! Why are you walking away?
The local maps say there are planets east of the core worlds. Do you think there are aliens there? Do they visit us?
I went on a school trip long ago, out to Canyon. One of the school ships' escorts was blown out of the sky by a ship shooting little yellow dots. We barely escaped.
I thought I saw a squirrel jumping in a tree, until I looked harder. It was the size of a person! And it was eating acorns! I was going to call the police but I was so mesmerized by its cuteness that I forgot.
On my way home from a trip five systems away, I saw this big teardrop-shaped ship with castles on it. It was huge! Bigger than a Navy Cruiser. I bet it was an alien ship. It seemed friendly though.
I saw a man walking down the street... or I thought it was a man, until it walked past a transformer. The man flickered; it was a hologram covering some kind of fuzzy creature.
I saw Nuclear Martini playing at a concert on Prime, and I swear the hairy drummer is some kind of giant squirrel.
There's these game conventions up in the paradise worlds, and I see a lot of short kids wearing full-body squirrel outfits. I'm starting to wonder if they're really aliens.
There was a crashed ship near me, and I heard rumors of some crazy squirrel inside. The police cleaned it up really quick and now all we see is some scorch marks. The authorities won't say anything.
The pickled acorns they sell in the store taste so good they can't possibly be of human manufacture.
Astrophysicist
Materials science researcher
Research engineer
Anthropologist
Student
Xenoarchaeologist
Historian
Cryptozoologist
We assumed this planet was always inhabitable, but it turns out it had a dangerously-toxic atmosphere a while ago. The Pug made it fertile again, and according to our studies, they did it in under 40 years.
The Pug left the strangest objects behind for us to study. It's like solving a thousand educational puzzles.
Studying this planet will accelerate human science by decades. Maybe centuries. I think the Pug may have done us more good than harm.
I used to think the Pug were evil after all they did, but look at the consequences of their actions. We're at peace, we allied together as a single species, and we have endless technology to study.
I found the strangest holographic art piece. Both the technology and aesthetics were elegant. I saw no transmitters; they must be using nanotransmitters or something. It's amazing!
We make a major breakthrough every day on this planet.
I think we're starting to really understand the principles behind interstellar travel now, at a far deeper level than we ever thought possible.
My grandmother came out of retirement just to study this planet. She's terminally ill, but she's sworn to work here until the day she dies. These discoveries are that important to her.
I'm skipping my honeymoon to research this city. I hope I don't end up divorced.
We had to add four new elements to the periodic table in the first week we studied this place.
There's a building near here where space literally folds in upon itself and gravity goes in multiple directions. You can walk in one direction and come back the way you came in, up-side-down. We have a nurse station outside for the inevitable concussions.
It's odd, but some of the buildings near here bear a striking resemblance to ancient Minoan architecture. We also found tablets with Sanskrit writing and samples of ancient cave paintings. How long have the Pug been manipulating us?
We're still studying what lies beyond the wormhole. There's a never-ending slue of discoveries from the Quarg ruins that are almost as valuable as what we found on this planet.
There are residual space-time distortions at the Quarg ringworld past the wormhole. We suspect it was moved in minutes. The energy required would be more than the total energy ever produced by the human race.
A ringworld is such a stupid idea. If you break clean through one piece, the centrifugal force tears the whole ring apart. If the Quarg were smart, they would've made a Dyson swarm instead.
Pirate
When I saw the Pug attacking Earth, I laughed so hard I almost cried. Smug navy keeps shooting up our ships, and now it's their turn to die!
Them Syndicate was torn in half by the Pug. Serves them right, I say. They make it too hard to earn a dishonest living around here.
It just ain't right. The Pug should've smashed up Earth. They're anarchists like us, you know? Sneak in, blow up things, demand obedience. Why did they stop? Just ain't right.
When I was little, and our gang was fighting, my gang's leader used to threaten to kill us so we'd unite against him. Then he smacked us around until we did what he said. I bet that's what the Pug did. It worked, too.
Psychological manipulation, that's all it is. Any good anarchist will tell you that's what the Pug are all about. Murder, death, kill... to trick you into doing what THEY want.
I wish the Pug hadn't stopped the Syndicate from nuking Earth. Can you imagine the collapse of the galactic Republic? Galactic anarchy! It's how the galaxy should be.
We flew near Stormhold and saw this big ship that looked like a huge letter 'I' and it destroyed half our fleet. We nearly blew it up, but it disappeared in a bunch of sparkles.
My pirate gang has been hunting these big ships near Stormhold. They usually blow up, but occasionally we can pillage some nice stuff. It sells for a fortune on the black market.
The Syndicate is always buying the stuff we pillage from those strange ships near Stormhold.
We picked up some nice goods off of a strange alien ship near Stormhold. My captain almost installed it on our ship, but we're afraid the little repair bots will eat us alive.
The engines we pillaged from those weird ships near Stormhold nearly melted our ship. We switched back to those green engines from the Deep after that.
Ever since we installed those strange red alien turrets, no missile has been able to get anywhere near us. We lost five ships getting it, but we've captured five more to replace them!
The power generator we pillaged off of that alien ship near Stormhold is larger than some of our interceptors. It melted through the hull when we tried to install it.
I hear a rich pirate gang to the north tried to capture one of those big alien ships near Stormhold. They packed a Bactrian with four hundred teenagers and nerve gas. I don't know if they won the fight. Waste of slaves if you ask me.
My captain installed two of those big alien turrets that shoot yellow sparks. Now we can throw Syndicate Wasps half way across the star system.
We captured one of those alien fighters near Stormhold. I'm not sure what the creature was that we found inside, but I can tell you it was delicious. Our ship's chef really knows his trade.
From an alien ship near Stormhold, my crew pillaged one of the... sparkle drive systems? We jumped past human space and regretted it quickly. I sold the drive to the Syndicate for a hefty sum. Let them deal with the insanity that lies beyond.
I still have nightmares about my time at Durax. I'm never going back there.
I suspect that
I'm positive that
People say
People say that
They say
I hear rumors that
I wouldn't be surprised if
I can't help feeling like
There's a good chance that
It's definitely possible that
I'm pretty sure
Everyone I know is certain that
My crazy uncle is always jabbering on about how
My crazy mother-in-law is always jabbering on about how
My last girlfriend wouldn't stop ranting about how she thinks
My last boyfriend wouldn't stop ranting about how he thinks
I can't believe how some people could think that
You'd have to be a real dope to believe that
I find myself believing that
Nobody believes me when I tell them about how
I think
I really do think
I believe that
I really do believe that
I'm sure that
Everyone knows
Everyone knows that
Everybody knows
Everybody knows that
I wish more people realized
I wish more people realized that
My nutty cousin claims that
The voices in my head say
My invisible friend knows that
the politicians
government officials
members of Parliament
people on the Paradise worlds
people on the rich worlds
those weird folks from the Deep
corporate executives
the Republic's intelligence operatives
bank managers
Syndicate executives
most planetary governors
the executives of the Tarazed corporation
the executives of the Lionheart corporation
the executives of the Megaparsec corporation
the executives of the Lovelace corporation
 are actually aliens.
 are aliens in disguise.
 are just pretending to be human.
 are aliens.
I watched the video of
I listened to
I just got tickets to see
I just got back from seeing
I'm just coming back from seeing
I just heard
I just saw
I had a backstage pass to
playing a concert
doing a show
in concert
at their concert
playing a benefit concert
live
on tour
at a live concert
playing a gig
live in concert
 at Tarazed Stadium
 at the amphitheater
 at a concert hall
 in a nightclub
 at Betelgeuse Stadium
 at Lionheart Arena
 at the Grange
 at a resort
 at Canyonland Park
 in a stylin' party-hall
, but after what I heard
, but after what I've seen
, and now that I've really looked at them
 I'm sure they're
 I know they're
 it's clear to me now they're
 I know they have to be
 aliens
 in disguise.
 wearing holograms.
 hiding among us.
 pretending to be human.
I checked out the latest installment of 
I got hooked on 
I was catching up on 
I went to a fan convention for 
 but now I'm sure that
 but I think
 and I know now that
 the one of the actors is
 the director is
 the lead actor is
 the set designer is
 the producer is
 an alien
 some kind of alien
 an alien because 
someone saw them
I saw them
 sneeze non-stop for an hour
 wearing dark sunglasses in a movie theater
 eating a piece of metal
 speaking in their dreams
 speaking some strange language
 moving too quickly for a human
 lifting a one-ton crate
 reciting 2000 digits of pi
 using a full-body hologram
The 
tailor
gardener
lawyer
neighbor
proctologist
fortune teller
veterinarian
masseuse
chiropractor
janitor
neurologist
social worker
psychologist
psychiatrist
therapist
 near me
 next door
 across the street
 down the block
 in the next apartment
 must be
 has to be
landlord
boss
friend
in-law
stepbrother
evil stepmother
beau
 could be
Did you see that video of the alien ships fighting? I heard that my sister's best friend's husband saw a bunch of those ships near Cardax.
I saw that video of the alien ships fighting, and it looked a lot like another ship I saw one time. It was a teardrop-shaped luxury liner. The captain called it a Centipede, but wouldn't say where it came from.
That ship video was amazing. I saw those ships in a game called, 'Boundless Frontiers.' The 'Death-Squirrel' and 'Hippie Love Squirrel' factions both use them in a non-stop battle above the planet 'Skyflame.' It's clear some fan is pulling a giant prank.
Did you see that alien ship video? Whoever those aliens are, I hope they sell those huge shield-shaped ships to us. We could really use those to protect our merchant caravans near pirate space.
I hope the aliens in that video don't invade us. We've had enough alien trouble already.
That alien ship video was so fake. I could see the strings the ship models were flying along. Sloppy job.
I know a fake video when I see one. There's enough real alien problems in the galaxy to worry about without thinking about a FAKE group of aliens.
Did you see the alien ship fight video? I swear, I was using Blender version 17.47, and I found 3D models of those ships made back in the 21st century. Am I losing my mind?
I visited the new Syndicate station at Ultima Thule. It's hilarious. They have alien-looking architecture and a huge ad banner.
It turns out the alien video was just a marketing gimmick for the new Syndicate station.
We're supposed to believe this absurd story about the alien ships past Ultima Thule? There's no wormhole there. It was all a Syndicate marketing gimmick.
I don't like how the Syndicate tricked us with that fake alien video as a silly marketing gimmick, but at least they're not trying to nuke Earth or destroy starlanes.
Citizen
Parent
Did you try the Hai beer made of fermented nuts? It's amazing.
I always knew those pickled acorns were too good to be of human manufacture.
My daughter saw a Hai on the news and asked for one as a pet. I've been trying to explain that they're people, but she's too young to understand. All she sees is their cuteness.
I wonder if Hai have pirates of their own, like we do?
I hear Hai defensive technology is amazing. I hope we start using it on merchant vessels. We'll lose much fewer ships to pirates.
Did you hear there's a completed Quarg ringworld in Hai space? Can you imagine the size of such a thing? It must have taken a thousand years to build.
How did the Hai hide themselves from us for so long? Did our government help them?
I love the Hai. They're not psychotic like the Pug or anti-social like the Quarg.
I'm in a joint Hai-human sewing club. We send clothing to each other. They look so cute in mittens.
The Hai look like cute little stuffed animals, until you see their fencing matches. I bet a Hai could out-maneuver an Alpha if they had to.
Hopefully meeting a friendly and peaceful alien species will send our society's development ahead a few years. Between this and the Pug technology discoveries, I think we've gotten very lucky.
I hear the Hai let pirates live in their territory, as part of reformation programs. That may not be the wisest decision they've ever made, but it's certainly a compassionate one.
I hope nobody is smuggling Hai technology to the pirates. I don't want to think of what would happen if pirates got their hands on that stuff.
I hear Hai defensive technology is amazing. I'm going to stock up on shields and anti-missile turrets when I get there. Hopefully I'll lose fewer ships when I fly near pirate space.
Ever since I got my hands on a Shield Beetle, I've taken up bounty hunting. Replace those wimpy Hai weapons with some particle or Plasma Cannons, and the ships are unstoppable.
I've flown through Cardax many times. How did I not notice there was a wormhole just a few systems away?
I've made a fortune flying acorn cookies back here from Hai space. It's amazing how many people love them.
Last time I flew to Hai space, I visited the Quarg ringworld. If you fly to the inner edge of the ring and look out, the panorama is awe-inspiring.
The alloys Hai use in their ships are way beyond our technology. They're twice as strong with half the weight. No wonder their ships are so fast.
Don't go too far north in Hai space. They have their own pirates, and they're much more powerful than anything we're used to in human space.
I hear Hai space wasn't peaceful a few centuries ago when some reptilian aliens were raiding the place. I wonder where they went?
Like most examples of Hai engineering that you have seen, the Pulse Cannon does not stand out as a particularly advanced or elegant technology, but it has a reputation for being efficient, reliable, and well-balanced.
Pulse Cannons are the primary offensive weapon used by Hai ships. This turret mounts two Pulse Cannons side by side and allows them to track even the fastest-moving of targets.
An early stage in the development of better and faster weaponry to rival that of the Wanderers, the Tripulse Shredder consists of three Pulse Cannons in a single housing. Advancements in cooling capabilities have reduced the heat generated by each shot at the cost of drawing slightly more power. Additionally, the single shared housing results in a less consistent firing pattern, limiting it to bursts. These factors have made the Tripulse Shredder a popular hit-and-run weapon among the Unfettered.
Ion cannons do not inflict as much damage as some other weapons, but they disrupt the electrical systems on any ship they hit, draining its energy and causing its weapons to jam. If a ship has sizable battery reserves, this may have little effect, but for a ship running at near its energy generation capacity an ion strike can take it out of the battle for a few seconds while it recovers, or otherwise cause it to have difficulty firing its weapons.
The Unfettered conflict with the rest of the Hai has put pressure on them to gain a technological edge, despite their limited resources. The Ionic Blaster is a result of that pressure. It is much smaller than the venerable Ion Cannon, but is still able to apply the same weapon jamming and energy draining effects, while also doing more raw damage for its size.
This weapon improves upon the ionization capabilities of the Ion Cannon, while also being turret-mounted, enabling it to fire at enemies in any direction, not just those directly ahead.
	This design cannot yet be mass produced, but those that have been produced are prized by the few lucky enough to possess them.
These Railgun Slugs incorporate energy-discharging capacitors that deal a small amount of ion damage to their target. Although not terribly damaging, this ion damage combined with the significant recoil that each shot has turns Flea drones into effective long-range support ships.
The railgun slug rack is used to store and load extra railgun ammunition.
The Hai designed this weapon to best complement their Flea drones. Each Railgun provides a significant amount of force upon firing, pushing the Flea drone backwards and therefore forcing it to keep its distance from its target.
	Flea drone pilots joke that they provide more thrust than engines of similar size, so Unfettered should be using them at the back of their ships. There's probably a cultural component to the joke that many miss, because it's told quite often and the Hai laugh hysterically about it - every time.
This is ammunition for a Tracker Pod.
The Tracker Storage Pod is used to store extra ammunition for Tracker Pods.
Trackers are fast and accurate homing weapons. Although not as powerful as most human missiles, Trackers boast a significant hit force, helping to prevent the escape of whoever is unfortunate enough to be on the receiving end. Their only weakness is their large turning radius: if a Tracker misses its target, it takes a long time to turn around.
Centuries ago, the Hai fought with more rudimentary versions of the Tracker, and this was the primary defense against them. In spite of the dated design, it is still effective against small numbers of their latest missile weapons.
The Chameleon Anti-Missile Turret has a longer range, higher power, and shorter reload time than the Bullfrog.
When the Hai first started fighting each other, the need for a counter to Trackers quickly became apparent. The Cuttlefish Jammer can noticeably disturb a Tracker's lock to the ship by presenting it with a seemingly better, albeit illusory, target. This jammer is most effective on larger ships that cannot field enough anti-missiles to effectively counter missiles from all directions.
The Octopus Jammer is a more aggressive adaptation of the Cuttlefish Jammer, intended for short raids by the Unfettered. With several safety circuits bypassed, it is able to more effectively deceive incoming Trackers, but the much higher associated energy cost makes any ship carrying this even more vulnerable to ion weaponry.
Hai shield regenerators work by subtly modifying the geometry and harmonics of your shield matrix in order to make your shields more malleable and therefore much easier to recharge. Unfortunately, this system requires a constant power source, and generates a fair bit of heat while regenerating.
The Hai Diamond Shield Regenerator is an advanced type of shield recharging technology. Unfortunately, its power needs are quite high, and the shifts it makes to your shield matrix causes intense heat at the regenerator when your shields are charging. The Hai usually employ Williwaw Cooling when they use this regenerator.
While Hai technology is fairly heat efficient, occasionally they outfit their ships such that they sporadically overheat and shut down. When that happens, they install these.
This chunk of rock from the mountains on the Hai homeworld is apparently nothing more than a good luck charm, but the Hai have decorated their ships with them since the height of their empire. More superstitious Hai claim that the stones somehow reduce the nausea induced by hyperspace jumps by making travel between star systems easier, and many wealthy Hai refuse to book passage on a ship without one.
	This keystone comes with a package including a holo-film certificate of authenticity certifying its origins on Hai-home, a decorative but robust frame, and a tiny plaque with the keystone logo and sale number stamped on it. The packaging suggests mounting the framed certificate in a prominent location near the main airlock or public common area.
The Unfettered developed this scanner in order to determine which ships are worth plundering, or which lack the capacity to stand up to their ion weapons. Some Hai consider it rather rudimentary, but it is sufficient to identify the cargo on a ship from afar and provide more detailed information about the tactical condition of enemy vessels. This dual function is useful when fielding experimental weaponry.
Hai power storage technology is thousands of years old, but remarkably simple and robust. This is the smallest Hai battery pack.
This battery pack has more than three times the energy capacity of the Hai Chasm Batteries, allowing their ships to engage in combat for longer periods of time before running out of energy.
This medium-sized battery pack is ideal for most of the Hai power needs, allowing for medium length combat engagements, but could also be used keep a ship's heat footprint low with a small power generator and oversized engines.
This large battery pack boasts higher energy density than smaller models, and helps keep ships fighting in spite of sustaining several Ion Cannon impacts.
While most Hai ships do not employ their largest battery model, a few very powerful warships are occasionally equipped with one, keeping their heat footprint low, and allowing them to survive longer in a fight against opponents carrying Ion Cannons.
The Hai designed these miniaturized fusion generators back when their territory was being raided by the Korath. In these relatively peaceful times, they have seen no need to update the design.
Fission reactors are considered a rudimentary technology among interstellar species. Nonetheless, it remains a proven and safe technology that even the Hai use fairly regularly.
A Pebble Core is a miniaturized nuclear reactor, small enough to be installed in any ship larger than a fighter. The Hai developed this model for their smaller ships.
The Sand Cell is the smallest Hai generator. It was designed for ships which don't need or are unable to carry a nuclear reactor, and it clearly resembles human fuel cells.
While the Hai were designing the Flea, it quickly became apparent that even the "Basrem" engine set was too large for the purpose. As a result, a combined thruster steering set was created: "Baellie."
Unbeknownst to the scientists of the Deep, the Hai have been using atomic engine technology for many millennia. Hai atomic engines are still much more energy hungry than other engines, but exhibit greater efficiency than their human counterparts.
Unlike human space where atomic engines are a rare sight to see and a luxury to have, many years of being confined to a relatively small pocket of the Galaxy has allowed all Hai ships to be outfitted with atomic engines.
This thruster is the standard thruster on most Hai light warships, providing enough thrust to make them usable in combat, but it is not quite big enough to suffice for something as large as a Hai Shield Beetle.
While Deep Sky was busy developing the combat atomic engines, the Hai were working on making theirs even better. Because of this, Hai atomic engines are highly efficient compared to their human variants, requiring less energy to fire and producing less heat in the process.
These thrusters are the largest of the Hai atomic thrusters, and one of the most powerful thrusters in known space. Beat out by only the largest human atomic thrusters, these massive engines provide enough thrust to push around even the largest of ships as if they were fighters.
The tiny "Basrem" Reverse Thrusters allow even the smallest of Hai ships additional maneuverability beyond normal steering. Many young Hai find these an invaluable investment when first setting out on their own.
"Benga" Reverse Thruster
Considering them to be well worth the steep cost, many Hai freighter pilots install reverse thrusters such as these to supplement the often poor steering on larger Hai vessels.
With pilots generally preferring to focus on steering when actual agility is needed, these are the largest reverse thrusters the Hai offer. They still boast an impressive amount of power for their size, which allows even the largest Hai ships to quickly come to a stop when needed.
Hai atomic engines are too expensive to buy for most humans. All but the smallest of the engines are worth more than many of the most common ships flown in human space.
Hai atomic engines allow for some of the most customizable ships in known space due to their size and efficiency. The few humans that are able to save up enough money to buy a set of Hai engines usually astound others in human space with the efficiency of their ship.
Having such powerful engines is a double-edged sword for the Hai, as the Unfettered Hai too own these powerful wonders. These engines allow most Hai ships to turn at amazing speeds, making them extremely deadly in combat.
Reserved for special use on only a small number of Hai ships, these engines are one of the most expensive outfits that one could buy. Considerably more efficient than any other engine of the same size, Hai atomic engines are a go-to choice for anyone in need of a high turn speed.
Nine out of ten human captains interviewed in Hai space say that they would choose Hai atomic engines over those of Deep Sky any day... that is, if they could afford such expensive engines.
The Pulse Rifle was first developed by the Hai to help protect their ships from boarders during the Korath raids. While it has since been adapted to more effectively incapacitate its target, if several bolts land in quick succession, the accumulated charge has a lethal effect on most species' nervous systems.
A pendant made of the same crystalline rocks found on the Hai homeworld, fashioned after a Shield Beetle. A gift from Nanachi.
	It comes with a finely crafted lit shadowbox so it can be installed and displayed with pride. A trio of mounting brackets - miniatures of those used on Quantum Keystones - provide a secure anchor to keep the pendant safe.
This was meant to control some sort of experimental system, but it appears to have failed. Unfortunately it doesn't appear to be safely removable.
A senator from Bounty in the Delta Velorum system. He is somewhat paranoid, and insists upon the Navy taking greater steps to better explore the galaxy beyond human space to search for possible threats.
As you walk through the spaceport, you can't help but notice that coverage on the events of the Pug invasion still continues to dominate headlines, even though it's been weeks now.
	Looking around, you see that experts and officials have given way to talking heads and theorists. Some of them are saying what you also suspect: that the Pug invasion was a ploy to cause humanity to band together, learn to resolve differences without conflict, and ensure the sorts of extremism that led to the events precipitating the war would not be tolerated.
	But others...
	One particular paranoid fringe-world politician dominates the air on the channel you're watching here. Councilor Maduena Kabiru from Bounty demands that the edges of human space be better understood, that threats and even potential threats must clearly exist beyond what is already known, and that it is the responsibility of the government to find out and inform the people. While one could definitely argue in favor of his point, it doesn't carry much weight coming from a councilor whose system is a mere two jumps from a brand new Navy base.
	In this very public space you spot a couple of people who seem to hesitantly recognize you, presumably from other coverage, and so you keep your thoughts to yourself.
You are relaxing within the spaceport while your ship refuels after conducting a spot of business. On the view-screen is some talk show that you haven't previously encountered, but apparently seems to be quite a popular one out of Tarazed.
	A young and fresh-faced man who looks incredibly ill at ease has just been brought out as a surprise guest by the host Jonathon Camembert.
	"So now in our surprise segment, let me introduce you to Ronald Campbell. He once crewed on one of these big trade ships, but after seeing what he saw, he just had to come forward!"
	The host stresses the word 'had' so much his voice squeaks, but the audience's attention has certainly been gained.
	"But first, let's take a look at a clip."
	They show a short video featuring alien ships, not Pug, or Quarg, but something else. They are engaged in combat with each other, and fire weapons quite unlike anything produced in human space.
	You raise your eyebrows. Actual footage of an unknown alien conflict doesn't seem likely.
	When the clip ends, Campbell is encouraged by Camembert to talk about where he got the footage. Campbell is well presented, although his suit is definitely rented - you couldn't imagine how a crewman would be able to afford a suit like that on their salary - and he's clearly anxious. You can make out the beads of sweat on his brow as he considers his answer, and his neat suit is slightly crumpled in the way that happens when people wipe sweat off their palms a lot. When Campbell speaks, it is with a paranoid manner that is plain to see even through a screen. He talks at length about an ongoing conflict that threatens to spill over and drag all of humanity back to war; a war waged by an alien species known as the 'Hai'.
	The idea that there's a directly accessible alien race, at war, that has also somehow been kept a secret, may just be a ridiculous rumor. Nevertheless, it is intriguing... You listen in to collect the relevant details for future reference.
	It's difficult to be sure where you should start looking, but it seems that these 'Hai' are meant to be northward, and the biggest hub at that end of the known galaxy is Sunracer.
	They show a short video of alien ships, Hai ships, engaged in combat with each other.
	When the clip ends, Campbell is encouraged by Camembert to talk about where he got the footage. Campbell is well presented, although his suit is definitely rented - you couldn't imagine how a crewman would be able to afford a suit like that on their salary - and he's clearly anxious about what he's exposed. You can make out the beads of sweat on his brow as he considers his answer, and his neat suit crumples slightly. When Campbell speaks, it is with a paranoid manner that is plain to see even through a screen. He talks at length about an ongoing conflict that threatens to spill over and drag all of humanity back to war; a war waged by an alien species known as the 'Hai'.
	It might be time to go visit your Hai friends again.
You are relaxing at the spaceport while your ship refuels, when a breaking news broadcast comes on; it's not urgent enough to actually interrupt scheduled content, but urgent enough to fill the first ad break.
	The severe-looking anchorwoman bores down the camera with an expression that demands attention.
	"An ex-crewman employed by an itinerant trader has come forward to media in the Free Worlds about hostile aliens just beyond our borders. He claims to have brought video proof of an ongoing conflict that threatens to spill over and drag all of humanity back to war. Stay tuned for our full segment at six."
	That such news should come out so soon after the Pug smacks of a hoax. A quick glance at the clock shows you only have ten minutes to wait, so you stick around for the full segment out of curiosity.
	The news returns with the severe anchorwoman. It turns out that the crewman in question had been picked up by a minor media outlet on Tarazed. He had apparently traveled many weeks before deciding to seek the media in order to avoid being shut down by Republic Intelligence if he contacted them elsewhere. The man is fairly young, and appears very well presented, though he has a bit of the paranoid about him that is plain to see even through a screen.
	It is only after this that the anchorwoman reveals that, while this was initially treated as a hoax, one of their own reporters posed a timely question to a well-respected trader, resulting in quite the stir when he slipped up and confirmed the existence of the aliens known as 'Hai'.
	A clip of alien spaceships in combat with weapons quite unlike anything produced in human space is shown, and you recognize that the ships are Shield Beetles hammering away at each other with their Ion Cannons.
	It is only after this that the anchorwoman reveals that, while this was initially treated as a hoax, one of their own reporters posed a timely question to a well-respected trader and caused quite the stir when he slipped up and confirmed the existence of the aliens known as 'Hai'.
	You suspect it might be time to go visit your Hai friends again.
Landing in Hai space draws a much different type of attention than expected. Only recently you've begun to acclimate yourself to getting positive attention. As a war hero you're something of a minor celebrity now back in human space, but here suddenly mothers are keeping tight grips on their children, and passers-by look upon you with a hint of wariness.
	You realize that the few humans who have settled here among the Hai are all wearing pink at the moment. When you catch the eye of one lady who looks friendly, you greet her to ask a few questions.
	"Why does everyone seem so afraid?"
	She shakes her head and wrinkles her nose with a look of distaste. "Within about three days of hearing that the Hai were being splashed all over major news networks back home, a whole heap of curious pirates have chanced the wormhole en masse. The local security forces on patrol at the time got blown out of the sky by a surprise attack, and everyone has been a bit shaken up since."
	"Oh, that's awful!" you say.
	She nods. "Unfortunately, these pirates are increasing in number by the day, and it's taking a while for the government to redistribute an appropriately resourced security force thanks to the Unfettered."
	"Who are the Unfettered?"
	She seems surprised that you asked and responds, "Oh, they're a sort of rebel Hai group. If you don't know you should go visit Cloudfire in the Wah Ki system up north, or maybe even Darkcloak if you dare. A short visit would explain it far better than I ever could."
	"Why are you all wearing pink?"
	She shakes her head and wrinkles her nose with a look of distaste. "Some marauder came here just yesterday, posing as a trader to investigate the rumors. We thought the Hai had means of keeping them out, but this one snuck in and landed at the spaceport without any opposition. Then his crew kidnapped nearly four dozen Hai and hijacked a Geocoris before making off with their spoils. We're just... in shock, I suppose. It's completely unprecedented for something like that to happen in broad daylight."
	She sighs deeply and says, "Naturally they've ramped up security, but everyone is just a bit shaken and distrustful at the moment."
	She nods and forces a little bit of false cheer into her voice, "This is why we're all wearing pink, just a little show of local solidarity.
	A sad smile crosses her face and her expression goes somber as she explains, "A pirate marauder snuck down onto the planet recently, stole a Geocoris, and kidnapped a number of Hai, probably into slavery. The Hai are in shock, it's just completely unprecedented for something like that to happen in broad daylight. Naturally, they've ramped up security, but everyone is a bit shaken up so us locals are wearing pink in solidarity... and so we're not mistaken for a security risk.
	"Unfortunately, it's taking a while for them to redistribute an appropriately resourced security force thanks to the Unfettered. So far they've only been able to recall those on leave and up their vigilance."
	Your conversation is interrupted suddenly by a small group of somewhat official-looking Hai.
	"Are you Captain <last>?" one of them asks you. "Don't worry, you're not in trouble."
	You nod your affirmation.
	"Your reputation precedes you, Captain. If you have any stake in the current information crisis, please head directly to Hai-home. Someone would very much like to talk to you. As a person of note, you are presently being treated as an Envoy." They leave without waiting for your agreement. Then again, you did come here to see what was going on.
Visit the Hai
It seems like recent events may be taking away the Hai's valued secrecy. Go and see if things are okay. Visit <stopovers> and maybe see if you can render assistance on <destination>.
You should first visit Allhome, where the most humans are, to see how things are going before you get more heavily involved.
Visit the Hai on Allhome
It seems like recent events may be taking away the Hai's valued secrecy. You should see if things are ok.
Investigate the Hai
There have been reports of a secret, violent alien race that traders have known about for ages. You should go and find out what's really going on.
There have been reports of a secret, violent alien race waging war just outside of human space. You should go and find out what's really going on.
Follow the coordinates given to you by Captain Casey and meet the Hai.
Arriving at the only place you can think of where you feel sure you can find out more information, you find that <origin>, like most places, is abuzz with the recent news. Avoiding the many large, cheap, and boisterous establishments that service the many crews and workers of the Megaparsec corporate machinery here, you make your way to one of the marginally more up-market places, cunningly marketed as a merchant-only dive.
	Since the story first broke, there has been an endless cycle of contradictory reporting on the matter plastered across most screens in major thoroughfares. Here, however, it is remarkably absent, with only one of the screens on display covering the "violent alien race" at all - running stats on how many different versions of the story are now being told.
	Casting your eyes around the room, you pick out a merchant who looks like she's been around the block a few times and also like she could pick up and break most people over her knee. Especially conspicuous is the threatening glare that you watch her give a younger captain, when they leave a table talking about the Hai to approach her... briefly. After the captain is briskly brushed aside, you make your way over. Her glare falters in a flash of recognition before subsiding to a reserved scowl.
	She waits until you're directly next to her table before acknowledging you further. "The famous Captain <last>. Which ancient Sumerian deity did I offend to be granted the gift of your attention?"
	The emphasis she places on the word "gift" is dripping in sarcasm, but her overall tone is wary rather than hostile, and she gestures without comment to the seat opposite for you to sit.
	"I'm just here to find out more about the Hai."
	"You looked to be the most experienced person in the room."
	"Why ask a rookie when there's a professional available?"
	She scoffs, but despite her rolling eyes, a slight smirk undermines her otherwise wary expression. "Flattery from a hero. You've been hanging out with too many politicians, <last>."
	The deliberate omission of your title does not go unnoticed, but she continues. "Still, can't fault your logic, and I suppose I probably owe you one on account of me having got myself stuck on one of those Pug occupied worlds while it was all going on. You're going to ask me about the Hai, aren't you?"
	"Yes."
	"Hah!" she booms, one deep short bark of a laugh. "You and everyone else, <last>, and don't go trying to sell me the innocent question line. You didn't single me out cause I was pretty."
	She squints at you and leans back in her seat slightly. "That said, if you're asking me and not any of your new 'friends' in the government... maybe you're alright in my books after all."
	Her eyes narrow, but she dips her head in a very small motion of assent. "Well, you're not stupid, I'll give you that. You're trying to find out what most other people are, aren't you? You want to know about the Hai."
	She heaves a sigh and lowers her voice until you're forced to lean in. "You can call me Captain Casey, and I will tell you what you want, but then you can leave, alright? I like my solitude.
	"First, I shouldn't be telling you this. Generally speaking they don't like to draw attention to themselves. Second though, forget the fearmongering. I make trips up to their space every so often, and there aren't a nicer bunch of people anywhere, even if they are a bit furry. The Hai are peaceful and welcoming of outsiders. They've got themselves a bit of an anarchist faction, that's the footage you've seen, but they ain't no danger to humanity. You should see them for yourself."
	She pulls out her data pad and flicks some coordinates over to you. "Follow those and you'll get there. Keep an eye out for the wormhole."
	"The wormhole?"
	She shakes her head while chuckling. "See for yourself."
	Taking a sip from her mug she gives a slight nod in your direction. "Intentionally or not, you did me and a lot of other merchants a solid in that war, Captain. I respect that, but I'll thank you to leave me in peace if you see me again."
	Only now, as you move to depart, do you spot the wrist-triggered needlegun strapped to the arm of her drinking hand that would've been trained on you the entire conversation.
This system appears to contain some sort of astronomical anomaly. Perhaps this is the wormhole you were directed to.
Witness the Unfettered
It turns out this conflict has some truth to it. Go see where it's happening.
Visit <planet>
Go to <destination> and learn more about the Hai's worlds.
As you are leaving the merchant and the Hai, the Hai calls out as an afterthought, "By the way, Captain, if you really want to see what the Hai are like, you should go visit Stonebreak."
	"Thanks, I'll do that!"
Visit the ringworld on <planet>
This star system has an unusual number of metallic asteroids, which you noticed the Hai harvesting for the raw materials before you landed. Stonebreak itself is home to incredibly large cities: massive, clearly planned communities built in concentric rings, where housing space and community buildings alternate with zones of factories and shipyards.
	From above, this city has almost perfect radial symmetry, a sure sign that it was planned and built as a single unit rather than expanding at random over time. Every single building in the city is a dull and slightly irregular gray color, all made from the same material which seems to be some metallic alloy, and the corners of each building are slightly beveled instead of meeting at right angles.
	Even the spaceport is symmetrical: a ring of hangars face outwards at evenly spaced intervals, while warehouses and living quarters dot the inside of the ring.
	While the layout is utilitarian, it looks to be an incredibly comfortable place to live; the Hai have clearly given their individual community spaces quite a lot of character and life.
	As you are wandering around and getting a feel for the place, you overhear someone talking about an apparently complete ringworld in a system called Hevru Hai. It definitely sounds like something you should check out, and asking around quickly gets you some clear directions.
Meet the Rebels on <planet>
Go to <destination> and learn more about the Hai's conflict.
This is a complete Quarg ringworld, the product of millennia of construction effort which has consumed every other stellar object in this system in order to provide the raw materials. The inner edge of the ring is filled with solar panels, hydroponic gardens, living quarters, and sunlit common spaces. The outer edge contains hangars and docks for ships while housing storage facilities for cargo.
	Pondering your questions, you find a Quarg and ask, "Is this a dead end? This isn't Hai space."
	The Quarg explains, "Much like in Enif in human space, this is where we live as friends to the Hai."
	This explanation seems typically Quarg, but it's the best one you're able to get. Before you go, you ask, "Do you know about the rebels I've been hearing about?"
	The Quarg responds, "The Hai and their rebels are the same. You should travel to Darkcloak in Wah Yoot to understand. Be warned, they tend to shoot at newcomers."
	It seems like there's nothing else for it but to see for yourself.
Find out about the Rebels on Cloudfire
Go to Cloudfire and compare the Hai's side of the conflict.
You had to bribe your way through just to land without being blown up. These "Unfettered" Hai do not seem friendly, but it's time to find out what they're about.
You dodge the conflict in space and come in to land. Cloudfire's atmosphere is unusually hazy, with almost constant cloud cover, making agriculture unproductive even though it is a warm and damp environment. There are several major cities here that were abandoned centuries ago, likely due to the conflict with the Unfettered, and the one major city that remains is the closest thing the Hai have to a military base, with new supplies of weapons and ammunition constantly pouring in from the rest of Hai space.
	The spaceport has massive hangars and advanced repair facilities designed to accommodate the largest Hai warships. Where a fleet has just returned from a recent battle, the hangars are lit with flashes from robotic welders as damaged hull plates are swapped out for fresh ones and weakened joints are reinforced.
	It does not take long to realize that this conflict really is constant, even if the friendlier Hai on this side seem to be maintaining their defense without apparently taxing their civilization to any great extent.
Head directly to Hai-home
Go to Hai-home and meet whoever wants to speak with you.
After looking around Cloudfire for some time, you stop in the spaceport for a moment to absorb everything you've seen. A screen is playing through news on the wall nearby, and your ears suddenly perk up at the word "marauder".
	"Yesterday, a marauder terrorized the inhabitants of Allhome. They arrived by posing as a trader to investigate rumors currently circulating in human space about our existence. Hai security failed to identify the danger, and the individual snuck his ship in and landed at the spaceport without any opposition. Then his crew kidnapped nearly four dozen Hai and hijacked a Geocoris before making off with their spoils."
Soon after you land on <origin>, you notice a news broadcast on a nearby wall. "Yesterday, a marauder terrorized the inhabitants of Allhome. They arrived by posing as a trader to investigate rumors currently circulating in human space about our existence. Hai security failed to identify the danger, and the individual snuck his ship in and landed at the spaceport without any opposition. Then his crew kidnapped nearly four dozen Hai and hijacked a Geocoris before making off with their spoils. This unprecedented raid in broad daylight has the security forces scrambling to redistribute appropriate resources to handle the threat, and all security personnel on leave have been reactivated until better support can be provided."
	(Observe the reaction of the Hai in the room.)
	(Keep walking.)
	At a table nearby, a Hai says, "Oh, that's awful!" and the human next to her responds, "Feels like being back on Solace."
	The rumors must be spreading further by the day. There's no doubt even more problems than this marauder will follow.
	No sooner has this thought crossed your mind than your solitude is interrupted by a small group of somewhat official-looking Hai.
	As you depart the room, a small group of somewhat official-looking Hai interrupt you.
	"Your reputation precedes you, Captain. As a person of note among humanity who we hear has now been traveling around Hai space, you are presently being treated as an Envoy."
	For a second you wonder if it's a joke, but they look as serious as Hai can look.
	"I really don't think that's necessary."
	"Oh, I'm honored. Thank you."
	"If you have any stake in the current information crisis, please head directly to Hai-home. Our government would very much like to talk to you."
	"You may not think it's necessary, but sometimes that is the price of fame." The official-looking Hai shrugs. "In any event, please head directly to Hai-home. Our government would very much like to talk to you."
	They leave without waiting for your agreement, but then, you did come here to see what was going on.
Hai message to <planet>
Take the diplomatic ID from the box from Sayari to <planet>.
Ambassador Sayari, a Hai, served as their envoy to the human government a century ago (although no public records of this exist in human space). Her experience has placed her in charge of coordinating the Hai response to the crisis of their continued secrecy.
As you arrive on Hai-home, you find that a reasonable security detachment is waiting at your designated landing berth.
	The Hai aren't usually ones to be concerned about such things, but you suspect that, as an apparent "war hero", they may be more for your own safety than the Hai's.
	Word of your status in human space also seems to have spread ahead of you, especially considering your apparent reputation on many Hai worlds as one of the few significant human visitors. A small crowd of Hai gather to peek at you on the short walk from the spaceport to the government building you are led to.
	You haven't really seen very much of the Hai so far, and you can't help but think the size of the detachment is rather militant of them. It's impossible to judge if it's for your safety or whether, given your status as a "war hero", it's for theirs.
	Word of your status in human space also seems to have spread ahead of you, perhaps because you are a significant human visitor in the current climate. A moderate crowd of Hai gather to peek at you on the short walk from the spaceport to the government building you are led to.
	Several of the Hai guarding you usher you off to the left to avoid a gathering crowd.
	(Follow their directions silently.)
	"Why do I have such a large security detachment?"
	The Hai closest to you, who happens to have a very decorated uniform, turns to respond. "It's for crowd control. You've become the center of attention of politicians in a media circus."
	He looks back to the crowd for a moment. "Life in Hai space is complicated of late, and we want to make sure you are not stopped by crowds with endless questions before reaching your meeting. It would be... inefficient."
	(Keep silent and observe.)
	"Thank you for your service."
	As you are making the walk you hear questions posed and rumors stated. Occasionally you hear words like "survivor" and "dangerous" thrown in amongst the babble.
	As you are making the walk you hear questions posed and rumors stated. Occasionally you hear words like "honorable" and "reasonable" thrown in amongst the babble.
	He nods to you, and returns to his duties: holding back one oncoming Hai journalist after another.
	You arrive at a very comfortable office and are received by a mature-looking Hai with the appropriate regalia of a diplomat. She holds out a paw to greet you and says, "My name is Sayari. I was the envoy to the human government a century ago."
	The present media storm is all the evidence needed to make it clear that the Republic has never mentioned the Hai, nor publicly acknowledged receiving an envoy from them. If they're in on the secret, then they're probably still trying to work out a suppression strategy and have been too busy to send an envoy quicker than your own trip took.
	Sayari continues, "Our reports tell us that you are a well-known and respected individual in human space. We also know 'Hai' is quickly becoming a buzzword in your space. A few traders brought the news ahead of you."
	She pauses and looks at you seriously. "We think it would be prudent for you to represent your people as our point of contact. Would you accept such a role?"
	You give it a moment of thought.
	"That seems practical."
	"I don't really have an option to refuse, do I?"
	"Fantastic, you understand the situation," she says, though her tone is much more businesslike than the wording would imply. "In that case, if you could please take this to Earth and communicate with your various governments, then we can begin a liaison on how best to deal with this current scenario."
	She hands you an officially branded box containing a metallic badge. There is a symbol minutely engraved into the front that you remember seeing on your way into the complex, and must be the Hai government's emblem. Surrounding it in a circle is some sort of pattern, which reminds you of the codes found on identification cards and licenses in human space. On the other side, there is extensive writing in a script that looks to be Hai. From this, you presume that the badge is some sort of diplomatic ID.
	"Various? We only have two governments."
	"Oh," she says, "we've treated the Syndicate as a de facto government for many decades now; with the amount of influence they have it was the only prudent thing to do."
	You take the boxed item with you, and an escort awaits to return you to your ship. As the door behind you closes, you hear Sayari mutter to someone, "It really was much easier when they just had one government though. What a mess."
Collect Representatives
Collect human government representatives from <stopovers> and take them to <destination>.
You have a mission here for the Hai, but you need four bunks free.
Deputy Minister Yang works in the Foreign Affairs department of the Republic government. He is a pleasant and astute man. Handling the Hai secrecy crisis has become his job while the majority of the foreign ministry remains engaged with the fallout from the Free Worlds and recent peace.
On approach to the spaceport on Earth, you request to speak to an official of significant standing on diplomatic business. Thanks to your renown from the Pug war, you are able to shortcut objections stemming from you yourself not being a diplomat. The diplomatic ID from the box Sayari gave you, when presented, also seems to trigger some sort of classified override, fast-tracking the process from the quoted "two to three business days" to "two hours after landing."
	The Republic's Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs meets you in a private room at the spaceport.
	"Captain <last>," he steps around the table to grasp your hand in a firm handshake. "Xilin Yang. It's an honor to meet a hero of the Pug crisis such as yourself."
	"It was hard-fought, but it was necessary."
	"Thanks, but it wasn't as dramatic as they made it out to be. I'm just happy to have helped where I could."
	You play the part and try to act noble. Mr. Yang seems more than happy to embody respect for the hero of his preferred narrative.
	"You're every inch what I expected," he assures you before moving to take his seat.
	You shrug, palms up, and explain, "You should listen to the xenoanthropologists. The Pug were just here to test us, to make us really consider what mattered and come together."
	For a moment his expression falters, and then he seems almost relieved. "You may be a better person than I expected to meet."
	He offers you a genuine smile as he takes his seat.
	You sit down opposite him and explain how the Hai have proposed that you be their official contact point for humanity on account of your fame from the war.
	He asks a few questions for clarity, and when you're done he requests you wait while he makes a call. He leaves the room for a long while, and at one point an aide comes in and offers you refreshments while deliberations continue elsewhere. Much to your surprise the fruity beverage is actually quite light and not too sweet, reminding you briefly that most of humanity's food styles originated here.
	Eventually Mr. Yang returns. "So sorry for that. I hope you were looked after suitably while you waited."
	Once you nod your assent, he continues, "Well, obviously the Republic knows about the Hai, but for the moment our official "line" is that the government does not trade in rumors. However, an appropriate response is clearly needed. Republic Intelligence briefed the Cabinet of the Free Worlds Senate just yesterday. They have demanded that they have a diplomatic representative along for any decisions. This is already standard practice for the Syndicate. If you are willing, I will come with you to meet two individuals known as Katya Reynolds and Samuel Remington on Deep and Foundry respectively. I believe you already know them?"
	"Samuel Remington?"
	"Excellent," he says as he begins to gather stacks of papers, shoving them into a briefcase.
	"Remington is the Syndicate's head of public relations, and exactly the man we need in an event like this," he explains while gathering two datapads and a selection of folders, shoving them into a briefcase.
	"Now, the situation is progressing quickly and plans are still being made, so I am not entirely sure if it is they themselves who will be coming with us. Someone of Remington's caliber is likely too busy to come personally, but we'll find out when we get there. In any case I think we should go to Deep first for speed, but you are the captain. Shall we be off?"
Alondo is working to develop the diplomatic corps for the Free Worlds. Due to a lack of serious appointed positions (with the few already existing occupied as ambassadors to the Republic), he is looking after the Free Worlds' interests as a diplomat to the Hai.
When you land on Deep, Katya is there waiting for you along with Alondo. "<first>! It's so good to see you again! When the Republic briefed the new Chancellor and his Cabinet on the Hai, he brought us in for advice. We thought to try and reach you, but of course you would somehow manage to be in the thick of it before we even knew what was going on."
	You hug them both in turn and return the greeting. "I thought it seemed odd when they said I was meeting you for this, Katya, but it makes much more sense if you were just easier to get a hold of than Alondo here."
	"Oh, it was always going to be Alondo," she says, "but there's never a bad excuse for traveling with an old friend, especially when you're meeting other friends too."
	"Do we have time for a drink before we leave?" asks Alondo.
	You look around at the busy spaceport and see the workers haven't even noticed your ship waiting for refueling yet.
	"I think we can spare a short while, and you really should meet Mr. Yang."
	Mr. Yang had been studiously pretending he wasn't eavesdropping from a distance of a few meters but, before you could call him over, Alondo's slightly suggestive comment of, "Oh, I should definitely meet Mr. Yang," had evidently been overheard.
	Fortunately, after an hour and a couple of drinks, the embarrassment is long-forgotten when you return to your ship.
While refueling on <origin>, you see that the media circus is continuing unabated. Apparently, pirates are renewing attacks on trade lanes in the north, utilizing some of the strange weapons observed in the recorded clip of Hai ships fighting each other. Goodness knows how they got their hands on them, but it can't be good news.
Terry Adrianopoulos is the secretary of Samuel Remington, or at least that's how he puts it. Remington mentioned an internal political situation within the Syndicate while glancing at Terry, so there may be something larger at play with her presence. Hopefully it doesn't conflict with resolving the situation with the Hai.
Approaching Foundry, you are hailed and directed to a private hangar where you are greeted personally by Samuel Remington. His appearance is rather casual compared to what you would expect, wearing khakis and a collared tee as opposed to the typical suit and tie business attire that you see on Syndicate businessmen. It is certainly in contrast to a young woman standing behind him, who is wearing the usual business attire in this region.
	"Captain <last>, is it? I don't believe we've met before," he says while shaking your hand, perhaps a little too firmly. "I'm Samuel Remington, head of the Syndicate's PR department. You may have not heard of me before, but I'm sure you've heard of my work. I..." He stops himself. "You know what, nevermind. We're not here to make small talk. We have bigger things to worry about. I'm looking forward to working alongside you to handle this emerging crisis.
	"Now, allow me to introduce you to Terry," Remington says while gesturing to the woman behind him.
	"Captain <last>, is it? It's been a good while since we last met," he says while shaking your hand, perhaps a little too firmly. He gestures to the woman behind him and says, "Let me introduce you to Terry."
	"Terry Adrianopoulos. Pleasure to meet you," she says with a broad smile and a slight bow. The young woman goes from calculating to gregarious in the blink of an eye as your attention shifts to her. She seems at once pleasant and approachable while at the same time being slightly off-putting and uncanny. It's an eerie feeling.
	"Terry will be accompanying me as... well, let's call her my secretary," Remington says with a sly smile. Terry seems none too pleased to hear that, but she doesn't correct him. "I have men who can hold the fort here while I'm gone, and I really do need to get some fresh air, so the two of us will be joining you. There is an internal political situation going on within the Syndicate that has been causing me quite the headache recently." His eyes momentarily flick to Terry as he says that, but Remington presses on immediately. "It's nothing I can discuss in detail, with all the NDAs involved, you know, but something I'll certainly enjoy taking a break from.
	"Now, let's be on our way," he says. "The Hai won't save themselves with us standing here."
Meet with Security Forces on Allhome
Meet with the Security Forces on <destination> to fight pirates.
You are directed to an official landing pad on your return to Hai-home, and it is not long before you are introducing your entourage to Sayari. Alondo in particular seems excited to be here and seems to have a knack for charming Sayari with polite and insightful, if rather simple, questions throughout the diplomatic niceties.
	A functionary leads you to what appears to be a situation room, filled with monitors, holoprojectors, and other equipment. Everyone takes their seats at an semicircle-shaped table, and the functionary motions you to the middle seat. A massive holoprojector in front of the table turns on.
	"I don't recall there being nearly so many pirates before."
	Sayari frowns and exhales a long breath through her nose, "Yes. Well, it seems that the rumors making their way through your media have attracted every opportunist this side of the Deep."
	"Of course," she says, "some of the pirates were aware of us, and we were aware of them being aware of us. We had a quiet arrangement with a select few where we rewarded them for keeping the secret well contained within their own circles."
	Alondo looks surprised, and seems sufficiently taken aback to spare a questioning glance at Remington despite the deliberate lack of interaction between them so far. Remington's expression is unreadable though, and Mr. Yang and Ms. Adrianopolous both merely nod.
	Sayari does not appear to notice the exchange. "Extra security forces are being called in, but we've been busier than usual in Wah Ki with our northern brethren."
	"Are the other Hai likely to be a problem here?"
	"How much longer can the Republic keep up the ruse?"
	Sayari shakes her head. "No problem remotely so severe as the one at hand. Now, I expect you have something for us, Mr. Yang?"
	"Well, I'm afraid I may have some bad news from our side." He taps on his screen as he says, 'bad news,' and the holoprojector begins showing a series of charts.
	Mr. Yang responds, "On that, I'm afraid I may have some bad news." He taps on his screen as he says, 'bad news,' and the holoprojector begins showing a series of charts.
	"One of the things I brought with me was Republic Intelligence's estimate of the effectiveness of various information containment measures."
	You're not an expert at data analysis, but the highlighted percentages ranging from 4% to 39% do not look promising. The final graphic is a map of stages of what is labeled as 'artifact penetration'. "Artifact penetration is the point at which a government cannot reasonably attempt to pretend something is anything but the truth, at least not while still holding to the claim of being a representative government," explains Mr. Yang.
	He checks the date. "Our most optimistic estimates suggest the Republic will be forced to acknowledge the existence of the Hai within three months, or we would lose so much credibility as to compromise electoral stability. The actual time limit is probably sooner."
	"Would that be so bad?"
	"It is always bad to be forced into acknowledging a secret. If we act sooner, we may control the manner of that secret's release," says Xilin. "Plus, while the Hai have let the trickle of humans that find the wormhole settle here peacefully, a massive influx is a problem nobody really wants to have to deal with."
	Sayari looks at you. "We will have to come up with a plan, and quickly, but for the moment may I ask a favor of the war hero in the room? Please meet up with the security forces converging on Allhome and help them rout the pirates back to the other side of the wormhole. It will buy us some breathing room and options."
	It is so hard to say "no" to a Hai and their cute squirrelly features.
	"I'll do what I can."
Defeat the Black Lich
Defeat Black Lich's Marauder Leviathan at <waypoints>, then return to <origin>.
When you land on Allhome, you are greeted by the quartermaster of the local Hai security forces. You're not an expert at judging Hai ages, but he appears to be a little younger than expected.
	"Captain <last>! I heard you were coming to assist."
	"Time to rout some pirates, baby!"
	"I'm here to reinforce you. What can I do?"
	"Uh well, yes. I presume you saw the pirates on your way in? They've been appearing en masse and overwhelming security forces to raid technology and goods from the Hai traders and their security. Some of them have even been sneaking down onto the planet, capturing Hai, and taking them away."
	"I have heard about the kidnapping."
	He nods. "Unfortunately, it's taking a while for them to redistribute an appropriately resourced defense force, thanks to the Unfettered. It's bad enough that we've had to bring the old Ladybug models out of mothballs to bolster our forces here."
	"Even more unfortunately," he continues, "it seems that the overabundance of these pirates is the result of one particular individual's success. His ship, called the Black Lich, is in Waypoint with a stolen Geocoris that has been converted into some kind of semi-stable weapons platform and is now being used as a temporary base."
	"This does give us an opportunity, however. If the kidnapped Hai are still on board, we might be able to rescue them, and if we can defeat the Black Lich, we may stem the tide of opportunists that are swarming through the wormhole.
	"We have ships we can send in support, but they dare not go it alone. What do you say?"
	The poor quartermaster seems desperate.
	"I'll make sure the Lich is properly dealt with."
	"We'll give those pirates a lesson they won't soon forget."
	"I'll beat the Lich, and do my best to capture the Geocoris and bring them safely home."
You have returned, but the fate of the pirates and the captured Hai is still in doubt. Ensure that the Black Lich is defeated and that the fate of the captured Hai, whether deceased or safely with you, is certainly known.
Shortly after you return, the Hai quartermaster thanks you profusely. "The Allhome government has authorized a reward of <payment> for helping to route the pirate problem," he explains while handing you the credits.
	He sighs deeply. "It is a shame though that the kidnapped Hai could not be saved, but the other Hai captains tell me it was a mess out there."
	In an oddly human gesture that feels very deliberate, he places one of his furry hands comfortingly on your shoulder, "I'm sure you did all you could."
You have defeated the Black Lich and also successfully reclaimed the Geocoris and, in doing so, rescued the kidnapped Hai! On your way back to <planet> the crew you sent across to fly it home reported that something is different about it... It appears that it has been modified with systems of some kind, which are not of Hai design. It also appears that perhaps not everything about those systems is working wholly as intended.
	As you disembark you spot the Hai quartermaster checking on the Hai disembarking from the Geocoris, and after a short while he approaches you. "Captain <last>, I cannot thank you enough for your rescue of our kidnapped people. You're a hero to them. The Allhome government has also authorized a reward of <payment> for helping to relieve the pirate problem," he explains while handing you the credits.
	"Lucky for you, the merchant who owned the Geocoris has already filed the insurance claim, so you get to keep the ship as a trophy.
	"I do need to do a full security scan of it to complete all the incident paperwork before I let it go, though, so if you have any business on-world here, please take your time."
	"In any event, let's hope a more permanent solution can be devised soon. In the meantime, the local dealers have decided to start selling the Ladybugs again. I hear it's something about a spike in interest among the humans here, so feel free to have a look at them. I shouldn't get too distracted though, I'm sure they'll be waiting for you back on Hai-home."
	With a final nod of thanks he departs to attend to his business, leaving you free to go about your own.
	With a final nod of thanks he departs to attend to his business, leaving you free to wander the spaceport for a couple of hours until they release your new ship.
You have declined an essential narrative mission. If you would like to continue, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
Recover the Geocoris
If possible, recover the stolen Geocoris supporting the pirates in Waypoint and return it to Allhome.
After successfully boarding the Geocoris and defeating its pirate crews, you are greeted by the relieved captive Hai. You send crew aboard to fly the ship and promise to return them safely to Allhome.
This modified Geocoris has identical cargo capacity, but is modeled off one that was the result of an alien technology being merged with a hybrid Human-Hai operating system. It has additional shield emitters in a geodesic pattern over its main cargo wings, and a crucial element of the ship's system core is not manufactured, but grown from initial samples taken from the first occurrence. This means that some systems are built-in and unable to be removed, and also that it is substantially more expensive than its regular version. It is, however, significantly more survivable.
This modified Geocoris has identical cargo capacity, but is the result of an alien technology being merged with a hybrid Human-Hai operating system. It has additional shield emitters in a geodesic pattern over its main cargo wings, and some kind of integrated system core which seems to have something of a life of its own. As such, some systems are built-in and unable to be removed. Nevertheless it is significantly more survivable than a traditional Geocoris and at least as useful.
Talk to Hai authorities on <planet>
Meet Hai authorities on <destination>.
When you return to Hai-home, you are greeted with a call from Sayari, who looks relieved to see you. "Captain <last>, thank you for your assistance to our security forces. They appreciated it greatly, and we should have them properly reinforced in a day or two. A few things have happened while you were away, but you haven't missed anything important yet."
	She smiles and says, "Your diplomatic colleagues are still working on their solutions, so I don't think there's anything for you to do right at this moment. Take a day or two, and then whenever you're ready, come to the spaceport and we'll redirect you through to the secure port. By that point we should have a plan and be able to get you up to speed with our next steps. I have no doubt that there'll be things for you to do by then, so you should be ready when you return."
Go the spaceport on <planet> when ready
Get an update from Sayari at the secure spaceport on <planet> when you are ready to proceed.
Investigate rumors of kidnapped Hai
Sayari's friend thinks someone with legal protection is kidnapping Hai. Check spaceports in nearby parts of human space for evidence of a Hai trafficking operation.
Arriving at the secure landing area on Hai-home, you are met by a group of relieved diplomats. Of all of them, Alondo seems to be the least tired and takes the time to let you know what's been going on. "Captain <last>! You've missed quite the palaver. Still, I doubt you lost much. We've spent four hours trying to explain to Sayari what a 'furry' is."
	"What? That could've been entertaining."
	"Hmm. No, I probably didn't miss much."
	"Oh, I could have told her all about it..."
	He chuckles. "Anyway, I have a hunch that we'll need you again before too long, but for now they're putting some Hai patrols out on the other side of the wormhole with a couple of Navy observers on board to 'play the part', as it were. We've got a plan now but there's some work to pull it off. There's some older counter-propaganda that we're leveraging to pass things off as a big budget movie production."
	"Sounds good. What's next?"
	"Oh, what's it about?"
	"Am I allowed to know more?"
	Alondo gives you a quizzical look. "Of course you are, <last>."
	He pulls out a hand tablet and shows you a title screen which doesn't automatically look familiar. As he talks he flicks through a series of reference images. "There's an older TV show franchise with a cult following called 'Our Fuzzy Paradise', which has had a few different reboots and iterations over the decades. In case you haven't guessed, it features a whole cast of anthropomorphic squirrels. Most recently we had a seven season series run subtitled 'Fellowship is Glamorous' which was one of the more successful ones."
	"That sounds... interesting. Tell me more."
	"Never mind. It sounds like you have that under control. What's next?"
	"The production of the very first series was entirely funded through a government grants program though, as a cover for any accidental leaks about the Hai. Xilin tells me that since then it's pretty much run itself. The idea here is that since the last one was so successful, someone has decided that it's worth the risk to make a big budget movie production out of it and to potentially use that to kick off a sort of tourist trap type theme park destination. We've found a Seerwood producer who's willing to be all wounded on TV about the spoiling of his 'big surprise' release, and we're passing off the footage as leaked promotional material. For the sake of the cover, we've also decided that this project has a 'fan community' that have been hired on as a focus group to support the production for consistency and accuracy."
	He chuckles tiredly. "That's where the uh, furry, explanation came into things. It also probably can't hold up as a cover indefinitely. Still, things have been going very well while you've been away!
	"I hear you were instrumental in driving off some opportunistic pirates and helping stem the information leak. Come on, I'll buy you a drink on the others' behalf."
	Some hours later, you leave the fancy cocktail bar Alondo took you to and begin making your way back to your ship to sleep. Your cabin by far seems to be the best place to not be bothered.
	Partway there, a hooded figure suddenly falls in step beside you.
	(Ask them who they are.)
	"Sssshhhh!" says the voice at your elbow. "Do not react, and do not be alarmed, it is merely I."
	You look at the figure out of the corner of your eye and connect the whispered voice to the squirrelly muzzle poking out. To your surprise, it is Sayari.
	"I should not be coming to you with this, so you must promise to say nothing of it to anyone just yet," she says.
	"A very sweet friend of mine, who is much too enthusiastic and perhaps led by the vagaries of youth but nonetheless quite astute, keeps harping on to me about this theory of hers that some kind of smuggling ring is kidnapping Hai and transporting them into human space with the quiet support of one of your legal entities.
	"Of course, a thorough investigation has occurred on our side, and no admissible evidence of such things has turned up, but...
	"Well, you see we cannot investigate your space openly or easily. I have paid it little mind, written it off as one of her eccentricities, but things are very tense right now. The Council of Elders wants to maintain our secrecy and the human diplomats are willing to accommodate us, but we sense their governments grow tired of maintaining the fiction. We are well aware that human intelligence services are highly competent, and motivated by many different factors. It worries me that one of your factions may not be wholly honest, and may have knowledge they intend to use as ammunition if things don't work out well for them."
	You have not had much exposure to this elected "Council of Elders", but it seems they must hold some kind of final authority over decisions.
	"But what should I do about it?"
	"Are Hai kidnappings common?"
	"They're not. Well, it can be hard to tell sometimes, but no, I wouldn't say they're common. There have been instances in the past though where occasional pirate groups have been caught either trying or succeeding. My understanding is that those were dealt with effectively." She gives an odd shrug that is distorted by the cloak.
	"Still, my friend is very bright, and she is insistent that there is something beneath the noise that cannot be accounted for by normal circumstances. There has been a spike in disappearances since the leak, and not necessarily on worlds where they could be expected to have got themselves into trouble. With recent events her words have begun to trouble me, especially after that raid on Allhome. Nothing like that has ever happened before," she says.
	"You are well-known, and must be canny to have got where you are. A Hai in trouble might recognize you, or you might perceive them when others would not. It would be in the interests of both our people to be sure that there is no such issue. Would you look for me? For both our sakes?"
hai slave prereq
	"Sure, I can have a look around."
	She gives you a little smile and nods. "If you come across someone and have difficulty getting them to trust you, try telling them 'Luf e ow, vai, luf e eh'."
	"Well, about that," you say, "I think I might have already come across some potential evidence of this before."
	Sayari's hood nearly slips off as she looks up at you with a horrified expression. "Surely not?!"
	You rush to reassure her. "Nothing concrete, of course. I can go and look to be sure."
	She gives you a very serious look and nods. "If you come across any others and have difficulty getting them to trust you, try telling them 'Luf e ow, vai, luf e eh'."
	"Thank you, I will."
	"What does it mean?"
	She winks at you. "It would be much less effective if I told you."
You have returned to Hai-home but haven't found anything actionable you can tell Sayari. There's still time to look for evidence.
This tiny asteroid has a space hazard warning transmitter, of a type typically used to mark construction sites. Perhaps someone intends to build a space station here? [If you can see this text, report it as a bug.]
You think you have enough evidence of kidnapped Hai to be sure of the bad news you bring. There may be other Hai you could still save, but you should go tell Sayari soon to see how to proceed.
Yeer
Wah'
Yoot
 Cor 
 Yo 
 Sook 
 Woa 
 Ood 
 Loo 
Blep
Hiya
Choo
Sook
neep
heep
Vai'
Woh'
Imo'
Anl'
uden
Any 
Every 
seeker of 
being of 
bringer of 
sentient being of 
being who offers 
being who seeks 
being who values 
being who brings 
species that offers 
species that seeks 
species that values 
species that brings 
creature of 
species of 
individual of 
person of 
sentient creature of 
peace 
an open heart 
peacefulness 
nonviolence 
understanding 
reconciliation 
harmony 
concord 
serenity 
and 
love 
a tender heart 
compassion 
friendship 
amity 
good intentions 
friendly intentions 
empathy 
care 
kindness 
is welcome 
in Hai space.
in our territory.
on our worlds.
to visit us.
to coexist with us.
in our space.
To be welcome 
in Hai space
in our territory
on our worlds
among us
in our space
, you need to 
, you must 
, you have to 
, one needs to 
, one must 
, one has to 
promote 
bring 
believe in 
offer 
seek 
value 
tenderness 
peace.
an open heart.
peacefulness.
nonviolence.
understanding.
reconciliation.
harmony.
concord.
cooperation.
Fellow peacekeeper
Human visitor
Friend
please provide assistance to us
our ship has been disabled and needs repair
please spare a moment to rescue us
You 
 came to 
 entered 
 Hai 
 our 
space
territory
worlds
 with 
impure
unclean
tainted
foul
shameful
violent
greedy
immoral
belligerent
brutal
cruel
heartless
thoughts
beliefs
principles
intentions
resolves
; we 
. We 
must 
have to 
have no choice but to 
drive you out
eject you
exclude you
remove you
 from 
Hai 
our 
space.
territory.
worlds.
human
creature
thing
being
 We provided you sanctuary and you betrayed us.
 We were nothing but peaceful to you but you did not reciprocate.
 We live only in peace yet you come bringing war.
 Have you no soul?
welcome
accept
tolerate
true
strong
ambitious
races
people
individuals
 that are 
ready to
willing to
prepared to
help
assist
work with
support
follow
obey
 the 
original
unaltered
 Hai.
Strong
True
Ambitious
Worthy
warrior
ally
These weaklings
Our enemies
They
 have 
disabled us
gotten the better of us
defeated us
Assist us in our fight
Repair us so that we may continue in glorious battle
Fix our ship so that we may fight
Destroy our enemies before they destroy us
Peace
Peacefulness
Nonviolence
Humility
Agreeableness
Harmony
Meekness
Docility
Submission
Modesty
Diffidence
Stoicism
Patience
Resignation
Forbearance
Fatalism
Pacifism
Passivity
Apathy
 is for the 
fragile
frail
pathetic
weak
deluded
misguided
confused
; we are the 
! We are the 
 Hai!
You coward
You weakling
You monkey
You pathetic nut
Finish what you have started
My brothers and sisters will avenge me
My brothers and sisters will make short work of you after this
I challenge you to a duel! Board me
I dare you to board me
Let's finish this face to face
Hai Diplomacy
With the crisis now averted, all that remains is to go to Mountaintop for the formalities.
You need <bunks> passenger spaces to transport Xilin, Alondo, Sayari and Teeneep.
When you land, you, Teeneep, and the Unfettered Hai are greeted as heroes. Word has traveled ahead of you through the new message links, and you are greeted by a hastily planned celebration in the capitol. After a few hours involving a brief formal parade, a great deal of cheering, some minor speeches with Xilin and Alondo trotted out to reassure everyone that there would be no conflict, and finally some more discrete parties outside the public eye, General Choot'k comes to you and Teeneep to bid his farewell.
	He shakes your hand and says, "You're a fine warrior, Captain <last>. You are as much a True Hai as any human can be, and it was an honor to fight alongside you in battle."
	Then he turns to Teeneep and tells her, "You're the future leader of all our people, Teeneep. Come back with me to Darkcloak. Join the True Hai and lead us to victory."
	Teeneep smiles and says, "My fight is here general. I fight for the hearts and minds of our Fettered brethren that we may find a true path. One day again we will be one people."
	Teeneep is quiet for a while after he departs, but soon enough the statesperson in her has walked you back into the celebrations, making sure to leave you with Sayari so she can keep you from embarrassing yourself.
	You're nursing the warmth of a beverage after breakfast the next morning on far too little sleep when your communicator pings. When it turns out to be Sayari, you take a moment to thank your body clock for ensuring you were already dressed and decent today, despite the suffering over it.
	"So glad to see that you've pulled up alright this morning," she says. "As one final thing, we all need to go and meet the human leaders on Mountaintop and finally close the book on this chapter. We could take any ship at this point, but I cannot overstate how much you've helped us. I thought you might like to see it through to the end."
	"We'll be ready to go in a couple of hours. What do you say?"
	"Seems silly not to come on the final trip. Of course I'll take you."
Arriving on Mountaintop, you see the station has seen serious renovations including a grand ballroom, all manner of diplomatic suites, and a notable lack of movie props. Rather than actors and stage crew, you see many familiar and unfamiliar people in full diplomatic regalia, and dress uniforms laden with medals abound on all sides. The Chancellor of the Free Worlds and President of the Republic are in their most respectable suits, while Alondo and Xilin have the traditional symbols of office (though Alondo's looks like the Free Worlds have perhaps not finalized their design just yet). You appear to be a guest of honor, occasionally being called upon to answer idle queries from people seeking clarity on one point or another but otherwise left to yourself. As you mingle with those taking a break from their duties throughout these preliminary meetings, you notice Remington and Terry are conspicuously absent.
	(Ask Xilin about it.)
	(Ignore it.)
	Between scheduled sessions, Xilin explains the Syndicate's absence. "The Syndicate is technically part of the Republic and awarded no special diplomatic status. Besides, Terry seems to have disappeared from Syndicate communications, though I won't hazard a guess as to their internal politics."
	At one quiet point between structured meetings, during which the peripheral conversations are more focused on the particulars of the Free World's position, you manage to get a hold of Xilin to ask about it. He explains the Syndicate's absence. "The Syndicate is technically part of the Republic and awarded no special diplomatic status. Besides, Terry seems to have disappeared from Syndicate communications, though I won't hazard a guess as to their internal politics."
	Perhaps seizing on the opportunity to get a momentary reprieve from more official business, the President himself steps in to fill the gap as soon as Xilin departs. It seems that you acquire a bubble of space around you whenever anyone of note stands next to you, and the President exploits this. "You know," he says quietly, while staring out at the many people hustling about at their business, "it's not very often that someone has the gall to patronize me to my face... I usually have to pay people to do that, or at least, to do it constructively anyway."
	The pause he leaves between sentences is just slightly too short to invite a response. "If you ever decide on a career change, that might be an option for you."
	He exhales through his nose as if chuckling at something humorous. "Fly safe Captain, a lot of people know who you are now."
	With that he steps away directly to meet an aide who had been hurrying towards you both, intent on ignoring the bubble. From across the room you catch Xilin with his eyebrows raised, giving you a curious look despite being engaged in his own conversation. Neither of them speak to you again for the remainder of the meetings.
	Eventually you follow the diplomats to a room called the Grand Borealis Chamber, "Where Mountains Touch The Sky," as Teeneep makes the first publicly broadcast speech from the Hai to humanity. The three heads of state announce a resolution granting safe passage to all Hai in human space, as long as they register with customs on Mountaintop before entering, and Teeneep expresses similar sentiments for humans visiting Hai space. It is announced that extensive surveillance fleets will be posted on both sides of the wormhole to ensure safety. This meeting will now turn into a multi-day summit to discuss the creation of a formal treaty.
	As you leave the summit for lunch, Xilin and Sayari intercept you.
	"Trouble. We need to talk," says Xilin. You follow them to a private meeting room.
	"What's wrong?"
	"Really? I thought we had figured everything out."
	"Hey, don't worry. Whatever it is, I'm sure we've been through worse."
	Sayari rolls her eyes and says, "Don't relax yet, Captain <last>. There is one more minor disaster to be averted."
	Sayari says, "It would have been too easy if it was all over. We have one more minor disaster to avert first."
	Xilin begins. "It seems that somewhere along the way, a shipload of kidnapped Hai didn't make it to a processing area. The Hai were left on Sunracer, and the ship appears to have disappeared."
	"For the moment," says Sayari, "We're the only ones who know about it. The Hai are in hiding but have tapped into a communication grid. I intercepted their transmission as it was routed through this station directly."
	Xilin looks at you pointedly. "We need you to go pick them up and bring them here. While you're at it make sure there aren't any loose ends. If it's not, this resolution may not happen, despite everything we've achieved."
	"Of course. I'll take care of it."
	"You deal with the diplomacy, and leave the heroism to me."
	The two look considerably less worried as you leave to solve this one last problem.
This brand new station is built with wide, spacious interiors to accommodate the Hai's preferred geometric development pattern and long-term perspectives. The powerful holoprojection system, which once projected an "anomaly" into space to cover the wormhole, is now inactive. Now that the Hai are entering public relations with human governments, this station has come into its own. A wide concourse facilitates social and business exchanges, as well as parades and demonstrations. The two uppermost decks handle state functions and diplomatic services, including the now famed Borealis Chamber, formally referred to as "Where Mountains Touch The Sky," where the public acknowledgment of the Hai was first given, and where the two species committed a formal resolution to define a treaty of cooperation.
The spaceport is a spacious docking assembly sheltered under broad, carapace-like structures which are arrayed around the lower decks like petals. It is designed to look impressive, and still has that shiny look and freshly oiled smell of a newly minted construction, though it has only basic facilities and services.
Pick up a misplaced group of kidnapped Hai and find out what happened.
You need <bunks> passenger spaces to pick up the misplaced Hai; make sure you have that, and then return here.
Arriving on Sunracer, you follow the coded coordinates you were given to avoid drawing unnecessary attention. With the Hai's first public appearance only just days past and still dominating the news cycle, you've been instructed to keep this as low-profile as possible. Fortunately, a glance at the feeds your ship picks up seems to indicate that the government response has taken the wind out of the more sensationalist talking heads - or at least the ones with notable followings.
	The coordinates turn out to lead to a lean-to town built around a Star Barge. The Hai here were unable to all fit on the ship and appear to have built shelters out of local flora to keep out the weather. The communicator on the barge must be what was used to send a message. You find a clear space to land not too far away and make your way over.
	One of the Hai approaches you. "Are you Captain <last>?"
	"Yes, that is me."
	He appears visibly relieved. "Oh good. We've been very concerned since we were dropped here. It's all very strange... we've no idea what's going on anymore."
	"The Hai are no longer a secret in human space, but they are concerned how you ended up here."
	"What happened to the ship that brought you here?"
	"Well, let's get you home before anything else happens."
	"Ah, we thought we saw something about that, but our comms are spotty, so we didn't rely on it. We all actually signed up to go to Mountaintop to take part in the facade, so it seemed especially suspicious."
	He shrugs. "An abundance of caution seemed warranted; we were kidnapped, after all."
	"We were en route to somewhere after the ship left Hai space. We don't really know what happened, but they received some kind of message that left them very concerned. They said something about hiding somewhere safe and landed here."
	At this point, he twists his face in a non-human manner you recognize as a Hai frown. "We were set down here for days and days. Our kidnappers couldn't seem to work out what they should do. Eventually, a woman landed next to us in this ship here," he explains, gesturing at the Star Barge. "She had them ferry us and all our stuff out to this ship, and then she took charge and flew off with them. That was when we sent the message. We were partly afraid it was some kind of elaborate trap when we saw that we could communicate to a Hai address directly. We never used to be able to communicate between human space and ours like that. I guess we were lucky this time."
	"Do you know where they went?"
	"What did this woman look like?"
	"The woman was very fierce and very strict about what people said aloud. She disciplined a number of our kidnappers in front of us for opening their mouths at the wrong time. We have no idea where they went, but we did hear one of them say that they were afraid they wouldn't be welcome there. It sounded like it was out of the way somewhere, wherever it was."
	The Hai sincerely thanks you, and they load their meager possessions and board your ship in less than twenty minutes. The Star Barge isn't in good shape after being lived in instead of flown, so you leave it behind. The woman they described is almost undoubtedly Terry.
A message from Stephen Moray pops up before you can depart Mirfak. 'Hey, Captain. It seems Terry has gone missing; if you see her, let her know she will lose her position if she doesn't return to her duties soon.'
Loose Ends
See if you can find Terry. She might have been involved in the kidnappings.
	When you return to Mountaintop, an all-Hai greeting party is waiting to provide aid and coordinate the safe return of those you've rescued from Sunracer. It appears to have avoided media attention, and the summit is progressing toward a resolution at an acceptable rate. It's been slow going: the Hai and human legal systems are so different that establishing common legal terms of reference has been a long-winded exercise.
	You've had a couple of days to contemplate the turn of events that led to you hauling a group of spontaneously abandoned Hai out of Syndicate space. The timing seems suspect, the individual seems familiar, and there's just something about what the Philosophers said that you just can't shake.
	While your passengers are quietly loaded onto a handful of transports to be taken home, Sayari and Xilin find you somewhere quiet. "Thank you, <last>. You had all the necessary discretion at this sensitive time," says Sayari.
	Xilin is more direct, "I'll certainly thank you for saving me from another headache. Was there anything else you found? It seems so odd."
	"There is something, but I should deal with it myself."
	They both frown and huddle in closer. "Do you think some of the kidnappers escaped? Do you think they'll continue?" asks Sayari.
	"No, but I think there's one thing I should check out."
	Xilin raises an eyebrow. "Is this something I'm going to have to report?"
	"Not if I can help it."
	"Hopefully not, but we'll see."
	You leave them with only guesses. You're not entirely sure yourself what's going on, but you do know one thing: you have to go to Freedom, where this all began.
The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years, it might look similar to Earth before it was paved over. For now, it's a sparse world with a single major town built on a promontory, overlooking a wide river mouth which carries runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.
The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls. Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked permanently on the outskirts.
Find Aspiration in the Al Hurr system. It wasn't on the maps before, but it's supposed to be close by.
As you depart the planet, you notice a new system has appeared on your scanners to the southwest. You should adjust your destination accordingly.
	When you land on Freedom, the spaceport is busy as ever, but as you go around asking if anyone has seen a woman matching Terry's description, people start acting unusually toward you. You wouldn't describe it as frosty: no one actually seems to know anything, and they remain as friendly and helpful as you'd expect a bunch of anarchists to be. Yet, the more you ask around, the more it seems that people are following you around and whispering to each other. You wonder just who Terry really is, and just how deeply involved she was. She seems to have been one step ahead all the way.
	As you go down a short, wide alley flanked by tall buildings, you hear the creak of hinges behind you and turn around to see a great wooden gate being closed. The same happens in front of you at the other end of the alley, and the people in the alley suddenly disappear through doorways. As you're looking around, you realize nearly a dozen plasma rifles are pointing at you from windows in upper floors.
	(Shout.)
	(Raise your hands.)
	The people in the windows don't take very kindly to your decision, and very quickly make sure it's your last.
	An elderly woman arises from her seat in a deep-set alcove and shuffles out in front of you with a gnarled, wooden walking stick. Despite her weathered skin and obvious age, her eyes are clear as she looks at you with veiled judgment. "You are a long way from home, Captain <last>."
	"I suppose that is true."
	She chuckles. "Now, what would bring the infamous war hero all the way to my humble abode?"
	"I'm looking for Terry Adrianopolous, I believe she might have come here," you answer.
	"Oh, I know very well who you're looking for, Captain," she says. "My question has more to do with the why."
	"I need to tie up some loose ends."
	"I need to know the answer to a question."
	She shakes her head, "The only loose end here is you."
	The people in the windows open fire.
	She stares into your eyes for a few long seconds, and then she bows her head. You think you catch sight of a tear glistening as she turns away. "If you have the means, point your scanners towards Mebsuta from here. Seek out Aspiration."
	Her voice catches at the end, and she looks back at you from the corner of her eye. "If you have it in your heart to do so, please, do not harm my great-granddaughter."
	She steps to a doorway and vanishes inside. Within seconds, the windows are closed, the gates are open, and you are left alone in the alley with the bustle of the spaceport beyond.
Return to the summit and assure Sayari and Xilin that there will be no further problems.
	Your arrival is unobstructed as you land on this mild, habitable world that appears to be in an advanced, but retreating, ice age. No one comes to greet you at the spaceport, either. As you wander into the single major town, built on a promontory overlooking a wide river mouth, you notice that the people here seem to be happy and the town appears to be remarkably modern. This place has been looked after by someone who knew how to source the necessary import goods to support it on this sparse world of grasses and something resembling pine trees - someone who was Chief of Operations of the Syndicate, for example...
	You spend about fifteen minutes looking around before a young boy walks up and addresses you. "Hey, stranger sir. I've been asked to tell you that Terry is out on the bluff waiting for you."
	"How do you know Terry?"
	Before you can respond, he's dashed away.
	When you get out to the bluff, there is a single individual standing on a level section with scrubby grass tufting between bare rock. The city is obscured from here, and you could believe you were isolated from all of civilization. As you approach, it becomes clear the individual is indeed Terry. The wind whips her hair around her constantly, and there is a chill here that is only partly the fault of the wind. Could this one young woman really have been behind all of this trouble, all of this death and suffering, everything that was risked between the Hai and humanity?
	As you approach, she turns, and you can see she has been crying. "You know you ruined everything," she says. "We were so close." The wind almost steals her last word and you unconsciously step closer to hear her better, causing her to tense.
	"So close to what?"
	"To changing everything, to remaking the Syndicate, to creating a whole new political order."
	She wipes away a tear and visibly steels herself to speak, "I was Alastair's chosen successor, I had already dealt with the competition, a few more years and I'd have been a hero!"
	She turns slightly and gestures at the sea. "Instead now I'm here, and you get to be the hero, a dumb war hero," her voice rises in pitch and volume, "Never mind a brighter future for humanity!"
	Her expression seems to be wrestling between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"
	"You kidnapped thousands of people. How is that a brighter future?"
	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.
	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," Terry says, then lowers her voice even more. "I inherited that legacy..."
	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you point out.
	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters, and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.
	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out between sobs. "But the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore.
	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."
	"Who is 'us?'"
	She sighs. "My father and I, and a couple of the old survivors of the purge. It's only me left now though, just one Base Principle."
	You shake your head and ask, "Do you realize you nearly started a war that would have killed millions? Possibly ended human government entirely?"
	"I know," she says, calm now. "Obviously not my intent, but maybe that would have been better in the long run than the Republic and its corruption. There's no apology appropriate for it, and I can't pretend it would be totally sincere on that front. War changes things; sometimes some pain in the short term is needed for a better future.
	"The Free Worlds were almost the perfect catalyst, but none of us could have predicted the Pug. Still, that nearly forced Alastair into retirement; it was almost enough. Were it not for the Pug, I would already be running the Syndicate, and there would have been no further risk with the Hai. None of this would have ever happened."
	Her expression is defiant. "No one would have cared about a few missing people in the world I would have built! It's a necessary sacrifice in the name of progress, and I would've shut down the pirates myself!"
	"It's always fine to say as much about plans that were never fulfilled."
	"People would have always had a problem with kidnappings."
	She gives you a hard stare, but her resolve isn't up to the task for more than a couple seconds. She looks away, and you can see her blinking away more tears. "Is this to be my end, then?" she asks. "Is this the price I pay for my efforts?"
	"Am I to be judge, jury, and executioner?"
	(Spare her silently.)
	(End her wordlessly.)
	(Spare her.) "There is no other home for you now. Let that be your justice."
	(End her.) "Justice is the price you pay."
	(Spare her.) "I've sinned more than you. If people like us decided what is right or wrong, the galaxy would be in cinders."
	(End her.) "This is for all the trouble you've caused me."
	(Spare her.) "Consider this my movie review."
	(End her.) "Consider this my movie review."
	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. When you look inside yourself, though, you cannot bring yourself to be her executioner.
	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.
	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. Some prices are too high to pay for a better future.
	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.
	"You'd better be," she says. "You and I both know that this can't become public. If you take me to the Syndicate they will do away with me if they find out, and I doubt they could manage to not."
	"Oh, Moray told me to say you're fired if you don't get back quickly... that was over a week ago now," you tell her.
	She rolls her eyes. "Of course, this is exactly the sort of callous governance I expect of them.
	"Don't distract from the point though. I can never go back. You're the only one who knows everything, and no one else can know it all. Taking me back is a guarantee that I'll be 'disappeared' - you might as well pull the trigger yourself. You must decide here, now, how this ends.
	"You are the judge, whether you like it or not, and no one else will carry out your judgment."
	You return to your ship. You're done here.
When you return to <planet>, you reassure Sayari and Xilin that there is nothing more to do. The danger is over, for good.
	As it happens, the summit has functionally concluded by the time you return. In fact, diplomats had been running interference to prolong things, knowing that your return could potentially have critical consequences. Now that you're here, the remaining agenda items miraculously get resolved within hours, and late in the day, you find yourself once again "Where Mountains Touch The Sky," as the successful resolution is announced.
	The historic moment lays the groundwork for a future official treaty framework and governmental cooperation, as well as establishing <planet> as the principle diplomatic embassy for both peoples. Less publicly, extensive surveillance fleets are posted on both sides of the wormhole to detect any kidnappings or other illegal travel. Now, the only way for illicit transfers to happen is if a government employee is involved, but all three countries have quietly agreed to watch for that behavior and punish it severely.
	At last, it really is over, and you can get back to your own life.
	Maybe you'll have to find out who the Unfettered were stealing their other technologies from. They mentioned another group: the "Wanderers."
Escort construction fleet to Ultima Thule
Meet a construction fleet at <stopovers> and escort them to to <destination> to prevent a confrontation.
When you return to Hai-home, you are directed to a government hangar where you are met by Xilin and Sayari, both looking very relieved.
	"I am very glad to see you returned, Captain <last>. Sayari said you were away on an important errand, but I've been hoping for a day now that you would reappear. I think you might be the solution to the current impasse."
	"You see," says Sayari, "while you've been away it's been decided that a 'tourist trap type theme park destination' is a critical part of the cover story." Despite her Hai inflections, you can still hear the air quotes around that phrase in the tone of her voice. "So far it seems the movie cover has been circulating quite successfully, so we're leaning into it.
	"This means we need a station, on your side of the wormhole in Ultima Thule. It also means we need it fast, much faster than your people could ever hope to assemble it. The Hai can build it much quicker than humanity can; we actually considered the possibility of needing to raise a station quickly a while back. The alien look that the station will have if we build it has been considered just another favorable aspect of the movie and it provides a long-term commercial justification for the whole idea; the, uh, 'tourist trap'."
	"It would help if I oversaw the construction, wouldn't it?"
	"Good idea. Let me know when the station is complete."
	"It's not so simple," Sayari responds. "In the light of the recent civil war your species has had, some of the Elders are less than keen on allowing a partisan observer to see the inner workings of a station in its earliest phases, especially when we haven't actually built one in so, so long."
	Now that she mentions it, all of the stations in Hai space do seem to be very, very old.
	"However, therein lies a problem," says Xilin.
	"The Republic will not allow the Hai to build a station on our side of the wormhole without some oversight by someone we trust. This has now been a point of contention for some days, and multiple suggestions have been rejected."
	Sayari chitters, "Honestly, it's all very silly. Lots of old men, who are meant to be friends, concerned that the other might have been lying to them."
	In an oddly comical gesture, they both shrug at the same time.
	"Anyway," she continues, "thanks to a little Freedom of Information request to the Republic, I have been looking at things, and I think I have the solution."
	"Is it me?"
	Sayari winks at you. "Catch on quick, don't you? The actions you're recorded as having taken show a certain conscience for the good of your species as a whole, despite your affiliations. I have convinced the other diplomats and our Elders that you might be a viable solution to this impasse. The human diplomats have already agreed, but the Elders wish to speak with you first."
	"You're learning to navigating the maze of galactic politics quickly, Captain <last>," says Sayari. "We are at an impasse. The Elders are less than keen on allowing a partisan observer to see the construction."
	Xilin continues her thought. "The Republic won't let the Hai build a station on our side of the wormhole without a trusted observer monitoring construction.
	"Both sides trust you, though," he says, as Sayari nods.
	"Who are these Elders?"
	"Of course, that's natural."
	Sayari explains, "The Hai are ruled by an elected council of elders. They are not responsible for every administrative decision that occurs, but they are the highest authority of our government. Their decisions are final, at least for the term of an election."
	Xilin addresses you, "Not a great deal of progress has been made in your absence. We have maintained our position, so the other diplomats and the Elders still accept that you might be a viable solution to this impasse. It is unavoidable though that the Elders must speak with you first."
	"If you're willing, there will be a council meeting in an hour, and I can put you first on the agenda. Will you do this?" asks Sayari.
	"I suppose I must."
	"Someone better be paying me for this."
	"Of course, let's do it."
	"Maybe in a bit. I should do something else first."
	Following Sayari, you pass beyond a security checkpoint where Xilin is prevented from following you. Sayari speaks with another Hai doing administrative work for a moment before gesturing you towards a private antechamber.
	"We shouldn't have to wait very long, but while we're alone," she says, glancing at the door as if faintly nervous for a second, "did you find anything on your investigation?"
	"Yes, I found several Hai that had been kidnapped."
	"I found something out of place on Maelstrom."
	"I found a symbol being used with a captured Hai in a registered warehouse."
	Sayari looks crestfallen as you list off the Hai that you found, but as you finish describing the situations she frowns contemplatively. "That seems to be more Hai, and more easily found than I would have expected. It would seem that the problem may be larger than we've previously thought possible... but was that it? Was there nothing unusual?"
	"Maelstrom is a significant world, a lot of important corporations obtain their raw materials from there and keep an eye on its operations," she muses. "If there's something going on there it doesn't bode well, we'll have to investigate it."
	She glances at the door, as if having heard something you didn't, before giving you an appraising look. "I trust you have recorded all this in some capacity that you can give to me?"
	When you show her the symbol an odd expression flashes over her face for the briefest of moments, there and gone so quickly that you could've blinked and missed it. "Yes, this is a very odd symbol, and not one I associate with any known groups. I will have to investigate and show this to my friend. See if it matches anything she's found."
	She glances at the door, as if having heard something you didn't, and gestures for you to quickly put your data pad away. "I trust you have recorded all this in some capacity that you can give to me?"
	You hand Sayari a data stick. "I saved everything from my logs on this."
	Gingerly, she takes the data stick and secretes it away on her person. Her expression of distaste looks like one she might give to some snake that could bite her at any moment.
	"I will have a thorough look later," is all she says.
	No sooner has she finished than there is a knock at the door, and an aide looks in. "The Council will see you now."
	(Walk into the Council chambers.)
	The next twenty minutes prove to be an exercise in tedium as various members of the council interrogate you over apparently mundane details of your recent actions as recorded in the Freedom of Information report. You're not really sure what most of it has to do with anything, but eventually one of the Elders stands up.
	"I think we've generally had enough of this here. Answer me two questions, and then we shall make our decision. Firstly, do you think that a diplomatic post should be able to defend itself? Or should it trust to the strength of those who meet there to ensure its protection?"
	This seems like a very strange question...
	"It should be strong enough to defend itself. You cannot trust your enemy."
	"Both sides must be trusted to protect a diplomatic post, or there is no point to having one."
	You seem to get no reaction, and the Elder follows up with, "What is the gravest threat, in your opinion, facing humanity?"
	"The Pug."
	"The Alphas."
	"Unknown jump-capable aliens."
	"Experimental technologies."
	"Humanity's hubris."
	There is a collection of chittering laughs from the various council members. You're not sure if there was something wrong with what you said, but you aren't left long to ponder.
	"It seems the human agent is an honest fool, but an honest fool can at least be trusted to be foolish honestly on all fronts."
	You're pretty sure you should be offended by that, but the council members are smiling and don't look like they're about to evict you.
	"It seems you learned the correct lesson from the crisis of your species," he says.
	You see several appreciative nods happening around the room out of the corner of your eyes.
	"You may act as the oversight for the human governments in this project. Proposal D-86513-7P4 is approved. Our Council is adjourned."
	When you meet Sayari afterwards, a touch of her usual enthusiasm returns as you share the news.
	"This is fantastic news. Now all that remains to be done is for you to escort the construction fleet from <stopovers> to Ultima Thule and observe the initial stages. They'll be waiting for your arrival."
A fleet of eight Geocoris is waiting to accompany you when you arrive, with just the final items being loaded as you come in to land. They will follow you to the site where the new station will be built.
You have arrived without all eight of the Geocoris you are escorting from <origin> to <planet>. You must take off and wait for them to finish this mission.
Return to <planet>
The Hai have another job for you at <destination>.
On arrival, you see one of the Geocoris deploy a steel ring around itself. Space-based cranes unfold and set about removing the three outer sections of the Geocoris and moving them to the ring. After they finish with the first, they progressively dismantle the other seven Geocoris you escorted. Within a few hours, there is a makeshift station with eight Geocoris' power generators and a sizable amount of storage and habitat space. The construction workers begin unpacking the contents of the Geocoris' storage pods, checking construction seals, engaging principle life support systems, and erecting a massive holoprojector.
	The Geocoris' captains explain that the Hai had conceived this space station option when the Geocoris was first designed, with some station construction principles used to support its massive cargo capacity. With minor modifications, it was made a trivial effort to dismantle eight Geocoris and rapidly assemble a station. They thank you for your service and inform you that the Hai government needs your help again.
	Content that the station is built satisfactorily, you prepare to return to <planet>.
There's a construction site rapidly assembling a station from Hai Geocoris orbiting this wormhole.
This station is made of eight Geocoris ships dismantled and reassembled into a spherical structure with external storage and landing platforms. Hai workers are shuffling about the station, installing human amenities and vast holographic projection systems. Presently it looks much like a construction site, but it is rapidly approaching completion.
Encourage recruits for Mountaintop
Now that the station is going ahead, the Hai need to recruit people to be actors in this movie production. Someone needs to sell it to them, and apparently that someone is you.
Terry contacts you and says, "Captain, there are things to do and you're going to need a bunk free for me. I need to speak to you as soon as practicable." You do not have a free bunk, so you should complete or abort another mission to make room for her, then return here.
You have arrived at the Mountaintop construction site, but it isn't finished or staffed yet.
At Hai-home, you are directed to a now familiar government hangar. Sayari, Xilin, and Alondo all send you greeting pings, but are busy at the time of your landing. To your surprise though, Terry is banging on your airlock before too long.
	"Captain <last>, or should I call you <first>? Anyway, doesn't matter. How would you like to make some money?" The smile she gives you is something like you imagine a large cat giving the tasty morsel it just identified as its food. "Of course you do, everyone likes to make money," she continues, not waiting for you to reply.
	"The Hai have put out the call for volunteers to be actors in the movie production and also to staff the new Mountaintop station when it's finished, but there's a problem."
	"The movie production is real?"
	She looks and blinks at you as if caught slightly off-guard. "Yes, didn't they tell you? In order to keep up the cover they actually have to start making a movie, or at least believable clips from one. The director they found, an eccentric chap called David Cohen, seems to have got quite enthusiastic now he's not busy bemoaning the 'big reveal' of his 'secret project.' There's a Mr Turner who's now the cover story's guy bankrolling the thing.
	"That's Sam's business though, and he can do that without a secretary. I'm dealing with the operational side of things, as I should be." Something in the tilt of her head gives you the sense that she's supremely satisfied with this turn of events.
	"While you've been watching early construction, we've been gauging public interest and... at the moment it's not going to work. In order to sell this, they're going to need at least four thousand volunteers by the end of the month, and twelve thousand by the time the station is built. We have to cover crews, staff, roles, extras; gauge needs for facilities, amenities, supplies, and livability requirements. We estimate they'll only get a third of that unless something changes."
	As she's talking, Terry has been laying out charts and graphs while using a handheld Hai holographic device to show animated diagrams.
	"The problem is that we need Hai who know how to interact with humans. We've had no shortage of Hai who are keen, even excited, at the prospect of acting in a human movie. Unfortunately, well, many of those Hai... have never met a human in their life. There's something off about their mannerisms and the way they interact; they're simply too alien... No one is going to believe that they're the result of motion capture in the movie, especially the staff and extras."
	"How do you know all this?"
	"How do we make them less alien?"
	Terry raises an eyebrow at you. "The Oracle may have been an AI supercomputer that could predict the economic situation across the whole of human-inhabited space up to fifteen years in the future, but it was still dependent on our incredibly developed data gathering, reporting, and collation infrastructure. With or without it, the Syndicate knows data. How else do you think we're so profitable?"
	When she puts it that way, it does suddenly feel like a bit of a stupid question.
	"As it turns out, that infrastructure is predicting that the Syndicate stands to lose billions of credits, per day, for the duration of any crisis evolving from this which involves the uncontrolled release of the Hai secret. However, we have a plan."
	Terry snorts and suppresses a smirk. "We don't. It takes years of sharing a society with humans for a Hai to learn how to code-switch their body language for us, and humans that have lived solely with Hai and no other human contact are equally unsuitable. No, we cannot make unsuitable volunteers less alien. There's a different approach that can work though."
	"And that is?"
	"What's the deal then?"
	Terry crosses her arms and leans back against the bulkhead. "We need a recruitment campaign. We need to attract Hai who've lived in shared urban environments with humans enough to be able to fake being humans pretending to be Hai. Which means we need a human touch to this; it can't just come from the Hai's own advertising networks, and we need some star power. Oh, and if you haven't guessed already, you're the one to do it. The Syndicate will offer you a sum of 10,000,000 credits to visit every planet in Hai space and do glossies. I'll obviously stage manage your image, and will have promotional material ready inside of 3 hours."
	"That's it? Straight into it?"
	She stares you down. "Right now you are the linchpin. Potentially the only human in the entire galaxy that stands between peace and crisis... and we're already behind schedule."
	"I don't really have a choice in this matter, do I?"
	Terry's answering grin is best described as "predatory".
You have finally visited every world in Hai space and sold the pitch to the people. With any luck, enough will sign up to make it work. Terry indicates that you may now take her to Mountaintop without further stops, but then adds, "I do have some leftover materials though, so I'll get you to do some final spruiking if you stop anywhere else along the way."
You finally dock at <planet>, your tedious tour complete. Shortly after, you receive a ping informing you that <payment> has been deposited into your account. Terry must've set it up to happen automatically.
hai dog and pony
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop.
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. Despite the enthusiasm of the Hai, it's tediously repetitive by now.
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. The routine is well-practiced now but starting to get a little tiresome.
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. You struggle to maintain a cheerful and enthusiastic facade as you count down the minutes until this ordeal is over.
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. Why did you ever agree to this interminable dog and pony show? Is it really worth all this just to save one tiny little galaxy?
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. You're pretty sure you've done this more times than there are habitable planets in Hai space. Did you lose track and repeat a world? Will this nightmare ever end?
You land on the world of <planet> and do your part to sell the opportunity on Mountaintop. Terry makes good on her promise of forcing you to shuffle out and do some last-minute spruiking to offload the remaining promotional materials to those who missed it the first time.
Retrieve Human Furnishings
The volunteers are so numerous that the Hai need outside help transporting furnishings for their quarters to the new station.
A message left for you by Sayari reads, "<first>, we need your help and you're going to need 200 tons of cargo space for this." You should return here after freeing up <capacity>.
As you and Terry offload her remaining supplies on Mountaintop where she intends to manage the arrivals and setup personally, you get a communication from Sayari on your personal device.
	"Captain <last>! Glad I could get a hold of you on the other side of the wormhole there. I see the new relays are working. We've just discovered a problem: interest has soared in sign-ups for Mountaintop, but we've realized that most of our 'human' furnishings produced in Hai space aren't going to pass as having been manufactured with your technology. Mr Yang has pulled some strings, but now we urgently need someone to go pick them up from Prime in Betelgeuse. Everything else should be ready on our end soon enough, so if you can just handle that pick-up and delivery, we'll be okay."
	You let her know you'll handle it and prepare to leave.
You have the furnishings the Hai ordered. It's time to return them to <planet>.
By the time you return, you are shocked to notice that the station seems to be rapidly approaching a completed state. Some four thousand people have already arrived, though some are still on board ships docked at the station. Once you register your delivery amidst the station chaos, it's only a few minutes later that you get a "thank you" message from Sayari.
	The note is short, but accompanies a surprising amount of credits. "Captain <last> - Thank you for your prompt assistance, but I fear I must now ask it again. A friend of mine who leads an organization investigating interactions with Hai and pirates needs help in human space. I can vouch for her and her organization, and I implore you to trade information and resources to solve our pirate troubles. Please keep quiet about this, lest it spark a diplomatic event.
	"She will contact you soon."
This brand new station is built with wide spacious interiors for later expansion, a staple of the Hai's geometric building designs. At the moment, there is a number of Hai pretending to be humans in costume and volunteer humans from Hai space helping to bolster the act. A powerful holoprojection system is projecting an 'anomaly' into space nearby as a novelty. It seems to reasonably entertain some 'investigators' following rumors of the Hai.
The spaceport is a spacious docking assembly sheltered under broad, carapace-like structures which are arrayed around the lower decks like petals. It is designed to look impressive and still has that shiny look and freshly oiled smell of a newly minted construction, though it has only basic facilities and services.
Pirates with Hai Weapons
You need to find out if the Hai are arming pirates and, if they are, stop them. Be patient for an opportunity, don't tell the Hai that the Free Worlds sent you, and make sure the Republic doesn't find out.
Before you leave, Alondo finds you in a hallway. "Captain <last>, come with me. We need to have a quick conference." You follow him to an unusual room with strange padding on all sides. He plugs a device with an attached keyboard into a wall-mounted monitor and types for a few seconds. Soon after, you see the familiar face of Katya.
	"The transmission is secure," Alondo says. "This room has good soundproofing and some signal dampening. You can talk freely."
	"What is it, Katya?"
	"You've taken a lot of precautions for this call."
	"Yes," she says. "This is a sensitive matter.
	"There's a problem I need you to solve... discreetly. The Free Worlds have seen pirates with Hai weapons for quite a while. Most weapons were on ships, but recently we've found a large stock in a warehouse on an anarchist world.
	"There's a problem I need you to solve... discreetly. The Free Worlds have seen pirates with Hai weapons for quite a while. I know you fought the pirate ship Silverhawk back before the war. We know now that it had Hai outfits. Recently we've found a large stock in a warehouse on an anarchist world.
	"Such a vast supply is unlikely to have come from individual smugglers, so we must assume it's the result of a large-scale operation. I'm worried the Hai government may be arming pirates. If they are, I hope the weapons are just misguided tribute payments. In the south, we well know how useful bounties and tributes are when dealing with pirates, but from my time as a councilor, I can tell you the Republic will not be so understanding.
	"You must discreetly find out if the Hai government is arming the pirates and, if they are, put a stop to it. Don't tell them the Free Worlds asked you to do it, and whatever you do, don't let the Republic know. It could lead to an explosive diplomatic incident."
	"A diplomat called Sayari told me she has a friend looking into 'interactions between Hai and pirates' who should contact me soon."
	"A trusted Hai contact of mine has friends that can help with the investigation. She also asked for discretion."
	"That's worrying news. I'll look into it."
	"Don't worry. I'll stop the Hai from arming pirates."
	"I'll pursue that lead and see where it takes me."
	"If you vouch for her, then I'll trust her too."
	"Don't worry, I'm good for this secret agent stuff."
	You explain about the note from a diplomat who also asked for "discretion."
	"A lead already! That sounds promising," says Katya.
	You explain about the note from Sayari who also asked for "discretion."
	Katya seems surprised. "Sayari! Can you describe her?"
	You explain Sayari's appearance to Katya and she responds, "Sayari has a long history of keeping peace between Hai and humans, longer than I've been alive. If she knows there are weapon deals, then I expect she wants to stop them. Still, be careful."
	"Thank you," says Alondo, "Just remember this is a secret mission. Go about your business normally and look for your opportunity. You may have to be quite patient to get this done."
	Alondo chuckles. "You're full of surprises, aren't you? Good to know you're confident in your skills though."
	After a few goodbyes, you head out to search for answers.
Treaty at <planet>
Go to <destination> to witness the signing of the Hai-human treaty.
When you land at the spaceport, you find a message waiting for you from Teneep in the system buffer.
	The message has traveled a very long way and filtered through a great many relays to reach you, but it is nice that you can safely send messages across the wormhole now.
	The content of the message is very simple. The Hai-human treaty, which both peoples' governments resolved to work on, has reached its final stages of drafting and acceptance. Apparently there's something they want you to assist with to get it over the line. They'll be waiting for you on <destination> when you're ready.
This tiny asteroid has a space hazard warning transmitter, of a type typically used to mark construction sites. Perhaps someone intends to build a space station here?
<planet> Construction
Escort a Geocoris to <destination> to begin the construction of a security station.
You have arrived without the ship you are escorting. You must take off and wait for it to continue.
Upon arriving at <planet>, you are greeted by Mr. Xilin Yang and the Hai ambassador, Hiyamaharu.
	"Captain <last>!" enthuses Xilin. "It has been too long. Welcome to <planet> again."
	Around you, the station appears to be prospering. A strong undercurrent of excited anticipation that seems to buoy everyone along as they go about their business.
	"Hiyamaharu here has been telling me stories about these so-called 'Wanderers' you've been off gallivanting with." He gives you a wink and a nudge, then continues, "I don't think he was meant to tell me, but it slipped out when I said we'd asked you back for this. I hear you two have been briefly acquainted before?"
	"Yes, we met briefly over some business with Alphas."
	"I'm sorry, but I'm afraid I don't recall the occasion."
	Hiyamaharu looks hurt for a moment, but quickly saves face. "Not to worry, I'm sure the famous Captain has a great many adventures to recall. A short chat with an old Hai is no offense to have forgotten."
	Hiyamaharu looks faintly pleased that you remember him. "Yes, that is quite right, I'm only sorry I wasn't able to offer more assistance at the time."
	Xilin looks shocked. "The Alphas? Seriously? Will there never be an end to their tale?"
	He waves his hand dismissively and continues.
	"In any event," Xilin continues, "Hiyamaharu and I would like you to do something. You completed a similar task when this station was first built.
	"The pirate threat to ships traveling to and from Hai space is just as bad as it ever was, possibly worse for the increased number of ships. So, on top of a mountain of legalese, an endless stipulation of trade obligations, and a nightmare of judicial jurisprudence jurisdiction boundaries, there is a very physical and tangible action that needs to be taken.
	"The Navy base on Farpoint helps to limit the mobility of pirates coming from the Far North, but there is no restraint other than distance to put a check on the pirates that come out of Stormhold. Something needs to be done to secure the space lanes, and so the solution that has been agreed upon is to build a station in Cardax. The volume of pirate activity there is intense enough that the Hai's rapid ship conversion approach to building a station is the only really viable approach."
	"So what am I going to do?"
	"Well," says Hiyamaharu, "the number of ships involved in this represents a considerable investment, and we'd hate for them to be destroyed during a vulnerable construction phase. The prior concerns about human agents observing the inner core of the station also continue to apply.
	"So, we would like you to escort a security force and the core Geocoris to the site in Cardax, clear out any threats in the system, and get the ship through the first construction phase so it can safely raise its shield again. Once that has been completed, the rest of the Geocoris will travel with their escort to join you. You and the security force will have to protect the station while the rest of the convoy arrives to finish the construction."
"Why not just send all of them with their entire escort at once? Surely that would be safer?"
	Xilin shrugs. "We've heard a rumor that the pirates might have caught wind of what we're doing. The reality is that the marauders up here can field a truly formidable force, if they get their act together. They've overrun the Navy outpost on Farpoint a number of times before, and it would be devastating if an entire naval flotilla, the Hai construction fleet, and a whole security force were all caught out in the open by such a fleet, possibly attacked from both sides.
	"By separating them, we're less likely to tip them off as to when exactly we choose to act, and once the station is up, the fleet can use the station's projector and facilities to support their presence. Plus, if they are tipped off already and we can't deal with them, then we only lose the one Geocoris. We expect that you and the Hai security ships are capable enough to escape from trouble if it's more than you can handle."
	"Makes sense."
	"I suppose..."
	"The Geocoris and security force are ready whenever you are. Be safe out there <last>, and remember: we can't have any pirates observing the construction."
You have arrived, but either the Geocoris has not arrived, or the pirates are still threatening the construction site.
Defend until construction can be completed.
You have arrived without the convoy you are escorting. You must take off and wait for it to continue.
While the system is clear of threats for a moment, you supervise closely as the Geocoris unfolds and deploys a massive, metal structural ring, before shifting hull plates and having its innards rearranged into a shielded station core. When the shield is back up, a confirmation message comes from Mountaintop. The rest of the construction fleet is en route.
	Now, you just need to keep the pirates away from the nascent station core until they can get here. The message from Mountaintop also warned that there may be a hasty response from the pirates.
There's a partially-dismantled Hai Geocoris with its innards rearranged into a shielded station core here.
<origin> Construction
Escort outfitters to build up <origin> station.
With a strong force ensuring that no one can interrupt the final construction stage, space-based cranes set about removing the three outer sections of the Geocoris and moving them to the steel ring deployed around the original station core. Within a few hours, all seven of the new Geocoris have been dismantled and integrated to the station structure, using lessons learnt from the construction of Mountaintop to rapidly finish a station that is fully battle-ready, if lacking in some of the amenities of life. In an unexpected reversal of the Mountaintop priorities, the construction workers unpack and assemble a massive holoprojector while wearing environmental suits before they begin unpacking the contents of the Geocoris storage pods and engaging principle life support systems.
	As soon as the life support systems around the docking section are engaged, the security ships begin landing those damaged by the hastily assembled pirate response for critical repairs.
	As you're attending to your own ships after their extended guard duty, you get pinged by a hail from Mountaintop. When you answer it, you are greeted by Xilin and Hiyamaharu, who look very pleased. "We hear that the operation to establish Mooncreek has been successful, Captain <last>! How'd things go with you?"
	"Yeah, it was fairly chill."
	"It was very close out there. There were some losses."
	Hiyamaharu is inscrutable, but Xilin adopts a somber expression. "Unfortunately, there was always a risk of that in such an endeavor."
	"Still," says Hiyamaharu, turning to Xilin.
	"A great success all round," replies Xilin. "The Republic and Hai governments have approved a reward of <payment> by the way, as thanks for your considerable assistance here.
	"If you have a moment though, we'd appreciate your continued help with a bit of PR now. To finalize the new station, the plan is to facilitate the set up of some of the major outfitters, both from Hai space and from ours. Predominantly, this would be so that we can ensure a ready supply of munitions on the station at all times. As well, a long-term garrison to act as security needs to be established. We'd like you to escort each of them on the last leg of their journeys, mostly for the photo ops.
	"Of course," Xilin adds, "we'll understand if you're too busy now."
	"Sure, why not?"
	"I think I've had enough of the limelight for now."
	Xilin performs a combination shrug and half-nod. "Fair enough <last>, be safe out there. We'll send you an invite for the final treaty ceremony. We'd all like you to be there."
	The call ends, leaving you to your own devices.
	"Lovely. In that case, the first convoy will be waiting for you on <destination>. I'll meet you there on <origin> when you return."
This station is made of eight Geocoris ships dismantled and reassembled into a spherical structure with external storage and landing platforms. In this dangerous place, critical tactical systems have been installed first, with only minimal life support and amenities. Other than the docking and repair facilities, its main focus is a vast integrated holographic projection system, which projects false security ships into space to confuse attackers and draw fire away from the actual defenders of the station.
Escort outfitters to build up <planet> station.
When you arrive on <origin>, you are greeted by a representative of Lovelace Labs. They and their Navy escort are ready to depart on their PR flight immediately.
The Republic garrison and Lovelace transports arrive to suitable fanfare and media pomp. Xilin and Hiyamaharu appear to have hitched a ride to Mooncreek in your absence, and they greet you in what passes for a spaceport that is not yet even serving drinks.
	"Good job out there, <last>," says Xilin.
	"I know it's trivial, but don't underestimate the impact of a stately arrival. After the crisis last time, it's really very important to penetrate the public consciousness and get people to appreciate the magnitude of these steps."
	"I understand."
	"As long as I get paid for it."
	Xilin nods. "The Syndicate cohort will be waiting on Sunracer for the next one." He casts a look around. "With any luck, you'll actually be able to get a drink around here by the time you return."
When you arrive on Sunracer, you are greeted by a Syndicate representative. They appear agitated by the delay and are ready to depart on their PR flight immediately.
The spaceport is essentially a military facility. Uniformed crew members of various stripes hurry back and forth without giving you a second glance. The food options are diverse, but all have that certain trend of solidity and mass over taste that is typical of military fare. There are few shops or other services catering to civilians.
Mooncreek Construction
Escort outfitters to build up Mooncreek station.
The Syndicate convoy arrives to a more muted reception, but one that is thoroughly covered nonetheless. The rudimentary spaceport, still only days old, has now opened up a bar, and the Lovelace outfitters have begun work on their facilities here. Hiyamaharu is waiting for you in the spaceport and appears to be sampling a collection of cheap whiskies.
	"Welcome back, Captain," he says, "If you don't mind, I'll be coming with you for the Hai escort."
	"This seems mildly ridiculous."
	"I hear the intent of this affair is to prevent the news cycle in human space from turning over before the big event," he explains.
	"Well," you say, "at least I don't have to go very far."
The Hai on Mountaintop are fully prepared. Everyone is eager to get this part over and done with.
On your arrival to <origin> with the Hai convoy, you are surprised to see a slightly put-out looking Alondo waiting for you at the docks.
	"<first>! How's it going?"
	"Fine, I guess?"
	"It's going well."
	"Good, good," he says. "Now, I know that the last thing you probably want to do right now is traipse from one end of space to the other, but I need to ask you a favor."
	He finds somewhere to sit down with you and begins. "You may recall that I was helping the Free Worlds set up their diplomatic corps. Obviously, I wanted no part of the ambassadorial business to the Republic, but when all this Hai business started up well, let's just say they struggled to find anyone qualified. As it turns out, someone in the senate doesn't particularly like me, and they've been using my extended time away up here to try and influence the diplomatic corps. Meanwhile, the Hai want the Free Worlds to have some involvement with this station we're on so that everyone is tied in, but obviously the Free Worlds don't particularly care when they could hardly be further from it.
	"I have devised a compromise: the Free Worlds will not supply ships to the garrison, but they will instead sponsor both Kraz and Delta V, primarily based in the south, to set up outfitters here, with full upfront costs paid by the Free Worlds government. A defining success will allow me to return to the corps with the influence I need to counter this senator's influence. Otherwise, I fear I shall be stuck here, on the other side of space, for the rest of my career."
	You look at your friend, and you can tell he's waiting for you to accept his premise first, holding something back...
	"What's the catch?"
	He chuckles. "You're getting to know me too well.
	"The catch is that the Free Worlds will only sponsor the outfitters if you agree to escort their convoys directly from Solace and Rust the entire way here. They want to make a big show of it - or rather, a certain senator has goaded them into making a show of it."
	He sighs. "On the plus side though, if you're interested, you do get paid diplomatic escort rates."
	"I'll do it, friend."
	"Of course I'll do it, but how much is that exactly?"
	He winks. "A hundred thousand credits per day, for a fifty-two day route with eight stops."
	"Of course, if you really don't want to do it, I'll understand. I don't imagine you're keen to deal with the politics."
	You take a moment to consider helping a good friend... for six million credits.
	"Don't be silly! Of course I'll do it, friend."
	"I'm sorry Alondo. Maybe I can find some other way of helping you later."
Meet up with more outfitters for Mooncreek on <destination>.
When you arrive on Solace, the Delta V convoy is ready and waiting along with one of their head engineers. They also seem to have sent their most blustery and arrogant sales representative, much to the chagrin of their engineer. Fortunately for everyone, they will each be traveling on separate ships, and not on yours.
On <origin>, it is tempting to take the time to go and catch up with Barmy Edward, but the Kraz convoy were already prepared a day early and near enough to meeting you in orbit.
	While you are briefly touched down though, you are greeted by a message from Alondo. "<first>! Navy intelligence has, in their infinite wisdom, deigned to let us know about a potential pirate threat. The marauders were outmaneuvered when <planet> went up so quickly, so it seems they might attempt to intercept the convoy. Please be safe out there!"
	It seems you'll have to keep your eyes peeled on your way back.
You have failed to safely escort the convoy of Free World outfitters.
Hai-Human Treaty Signing
Travel to Mountaintop for the final treaty signing.
In your absence the Mooncreek station has been fully completed. You are summoned to Mountaintop for the final treaty signing.
Hai Treaty
Travel to <destination> for the official signing of the Human-Hai Treaty.
With the Free World outfitters safely at Mooncreek, there's nothing left except to go to Mountaintop for the treaty signing. Alondo hitches a ride and transfers you the <payment> promised by the Free Worlds.
Participate in the official signing of the Human-Hai Treaty.
Arriving on <origin> once again brings with it full diplomatic regalia. The gallery "Where Mountains Touch The Sky" is filled to the brim with a great many representatives from the Core and Paradise worlds, and some of the more notable representatives from the Syndicate and Free Worlds. The entire Hai Elder Council is in attendance, and the Chancellor of the Free Worlds and President of the Republic are again schmoozing about in their most respectable suits. Alondo, Xilin, and Hiyamaharu have their symbols of office, and it looks like the Free Worlds have now finalized their design for Alondo's.
	The speeches in the grand Borealis Chamber turn out to be rather long and dry. Teeneep makes an appearance along with one of the other Elder Hai, whom you think you recognize as the one who asked you strange questions once before. Only the Republic President makes a head of state address, but the highest officer of the Navy also makes an address on the value of the Mooncreek station to the security of both nations and and the benefits of long-term cooperation with mutual friends.
	You are asked to stand for a great many photos, make occasional comments, and shake an absolutely endless series of hands. Xilin is kind enough to make sure you get some of the better hors d'oeuvres in between exchanging pleasantries.
	When it's over, Xilin and Hiyamaharu quietly inform you that you have a reward of <payment> for your earlier efforts setting up Mooncreek. You're free to go back about your business now.
The spaceport is essentially a military facility. Uniformed crew members of various stripes hurry back and forth without giving you a second glance. The food options are diverse, but all have that certain trend of solidity and mass over taste that is typical of military fare. Outside of outfitters, there are few shops or other services catering to civilians, and a very busy section devoted to the fighter groups that mine the asteroids here to keep the outfitters supplied with basic resources for manufacture.
You drop off the tribute to the Unfettered, and they pay you <payment>.
When you inform the Hai that you are here to receive a tribute payment for the Unfettered, they load the cargo onto your ship with a rather surprising swiftness and cheerfulness.
The Hai dockworkers load the tribute for the Unfettered onto your ship. One of them says to you, "Thank you. This is far better than watching our kinfolk starve."
As the Hai load the tribute onto your ship, one of them says, "Tell our brothers and sisters that if they will only repent, they will be welcome to come home."
Hai Tribute to <planet>
Collect a tribute payment of <tons> of food from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered on <destination>. Your share of the tribute will be <payment>.
Sell Jump Drive
Exchange a jump drive for money or weapons, if an outfitter is available.
As usual, the Unfettered are more than willing to pay you a million credits for your jump drive, but you do not gain any additional information by talking with them.
The Unfettered's usual deal of trading a jump drive for weapons still stands.
	(Take two Tripulse Shredders.)
	(Take money instead.)
	The two Shredders are loaded onto your ship, in exchange for your jump drive.
reputation: Hai (Unfettered)
The group of
 Unfettered unloading the materials
 you mined
 you gathered
 you brought
 seem 
 appear 
satisfied.
enthused.
content.
happy.
 "Keep this up and we will be building new ships in no time!
 "This will allow us to repair our ships!
 Some captains use asteroids as target practice, but find it too dull and easy to fight an enemy that does not react,"
 Too few captains are patient enough to gather asteroids like you are. Most of them try to get the resources from enemy ships, but this is a safer way to do it,"
 one tells you 
while handing over
before doling out
 your payment of <payment>.
The local Unfettered unload your cargo of minerals, and one comes to give you your payment of <payment>. "Some Unfettered use these asteroids as target practice, but too few bring the precious materials back," he says.
A group of Unfettered unload the materials you mined, without saying anything to you. When they are done, one gives you <payment>.
The local Unfettered collect the minerals and happily hand you <payment>.
The leader of the Unfettered unloading the materials comes to you.
Once the minerals are unloaded, an Unfettered comes to you, looking humble and sincere.
This will allow us to repair our houses, our hospitals, even our schools. For that you have my deepest thanks.
Thank you, Captain. We need these materials - and any other kind of help - more than we would like to admit.
They then give you <payment>.
Gather Silicon from asteroids
Mine and collect 50 tons of silicon, then bring the minerals to <destination> for <payment>. Silicon is available in the asteroid field of Wah Yoot.
Mine and collect 100 tons of silicon, then bring the minerals to <destination> for <payment>. Silicon is available in the asteroid field in Wah Yoot.
Gather Silver from asteroids
Mine and collect 15 tons of silver, then bring the minerals back to <destination> for <payment>. Silver is available in the asteroid field in Ehma Ti.
Mine and collect 30 tons of silver, then bring the minerals to <destination> for <payment>. Silver is available in the asteroid field in Ehma Ti.
Gather Lead from asteroids
Mine and collect 35 tons of lead, then bring the minerals to <destination> for <payment>. Lead is available in the asteroid field in Wah Yoot.
Mine and collect 70 tons of lead, then bring the minerals to <destination> for <payment>. Lead is available in the asteroid field in Wah Yoot.
As usual, the Hai are more than happy to give you the medical supplies needed. "Tell our brothers and sisters to stay strong," one says while loading the supplies onto your ship.
The Hai understand the urgency of the situation, and waste no time in talking. They load the supplies on your ship, and wish you a safe trip.
There is no reticence to give you the medical supplies. "We prefer to make sure our brothers and sisters are not in need; our own needs come later," one says when done loading the supplies on your ship.
The local health specialists are relieved that you have managed to bring the needed medical supplies back in time, and give you <payment> for it.
All the Unfettered here seem busy, and you have to wait before being able to unload the medical supplies to the local hospital. After some time, a local worker gives you <payment> and tells you to drop the cargo at a specific location.
Once you arrive with the medical supplies, you are greeted by a local health specialist who seems to be desperate for them. "Not a moment too soon. If this was any later the consequences could have been dire," he says while handing you <payment>.
Express medical supplies to <planet>
The Unfettered hospitals on <destination> are in urgent need of resupply. Collect <tons> of medical supplies from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered before <date> for <payment>.
Medical supplies to <planet>
The Unfettered hospitals on <destination> are in need of resupply. Collect <tons> of medical supplies from <stopovers>, and bring it to the Unfettered before <date> for <payment>.
Human vacationer to <planet>
This human wants to vacation on the Hai world of <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Human vacationers to <planet>
These <bunks> humans want to vacation on the Hai world of <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Hai vacationer to <planet>
This Hai wants to vacation on the strange Hai world of <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Hai vacationers to <planet>
These <bunks> Hai want to vacation on the strange Hai world of <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Wealthy Hai to <planet>
This wealthy family of <bunks> Hai will pay <payment> for a fast and comfortable journey to <planet> by <date>.
Luckily your <passengers> didn't cause too much trouble on the trip. After collecting their things, they pay you <payment> and make their way to the festival.
Festival at <planet>
For a month each year, the Hai have a huge holiday festival. This group of <bunks> Hai will pay you <payment> for you to transport them and their <tons> of supplies to <planet>.
For a month each year, the Hai have a huge holiday festival. This group of <bunks> humans will pay you <payment> for you to transport them and their <tons> of supplies to <planet>.
For a month each year, the Hai have a huge holiday festival. This group of <bunks> Hai and humans will pay you <payment> for you to transport them and their <tons> of supplies to <planet>.
You drop off the aid (or as they like to refer to it, "tribute") for the Unfettered, and receive <payment> from your contact on <origin>.
The Hai dockworkers load the food for the Unfettered onto your ship. One of them says to you,
As the Hai load the food onto your ship, one of them says,
"Thank you. This is far better than watching our kinfolk starve."
"Tell our brothers and sisters that if they will only repent, they will be welcome to come home."
Aid shipment to Unfettered
After speaking with the Unfettered and explaining your presence, they give you permission to land with the cargo.
Deliver <tons> of food to the Unfettered on <destination>. You will be paid <payment>.
Special Delivery to <planet>
This human wishes for <cargo> to be delivered to <destination> in human space. Payment is <payment>.
This Hai wishes for <cargo> to be delivered to <destination> in human space. Payment is <payment>.
Special order to <planet>
A Hai socialite on <planet> wants to show off their knowledge of human culture to their peers. They want <cargo> from <stopovers> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You gather the requested <commodity> and load them on your ship for return to <planet>.
Your payment of <payment> is waiting when you touch down, along with delivery instructions. You send the <commodity> by dedicated courier.
A Hai gourmet on <planet> is bored with local fare and wants to try food they heard about from human tourists. They want <cargo> from <stopovers> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
As soon as you touch down you receive a message from the Hai gourmet with thanks and your payment of <payment>.
A Hai tinkerer on <planet> wants to experiment with human technology. They want <cargo> from <stopovers> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
The Hai tinkerer is waiting for you when you arrive. They pay you <payment> and then run after the cargo pallets as though they plan to open them right there in the spaceport.
Special Escort to <planet>
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> for an escort to reach <destination> in human space by <date>.
Passenger transport to <planet>
Bring <fare> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
This family of <bunks> is relocating to <destination>. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
The family you have been transporting departs your ship after paying you <payment>.
This family of <bunks> miners is hoping to find work on <destination>, and they will pay you <payment> to take them there.
You wish the mining family the best of luck on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
This family of <bunks> farmers is hoping to find work on <destination>, and they will pay you <payment> to take them there.
You wish the farm family the best of luck on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
This family of <bunks> mill workers is hoping to find work on <destination>, and they will pay you <payment> to take them there.
You wish the workers the best of luck on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
This family of <bunks> factory workers is hoping to find work on <destination>, and they will pay you <payment> to take them there.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Bulk delivery to <planet>
Large bulk delivery to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Large rush delivery to <planet>
Hai "prison" cruise to <planet>
A group of Hai want to experience what it's like to be human criminals. Transport them to <planet> in a brig. Payment is <payment>.
The Hai depart your ship chittering in excitement. One of them hands you your payment of <payment> before running to catch up with their friends.
This planet is populated by an alien species that resemble giant, intelligent squirrels. However, the most surprising aspect of the spaceport is not the aliens, but the fact that human merchants and other civilians are walking among them and are clearly at home here. Would you like to find someone who can tell you what is going on here?
	(Sure.)
	You walk up to a human merchant who is busy haggling with one of the aliens. They interrupt their conversation when they see you approaching, and the human gestures for you to join them. "You look totally lost," he says. "First time down the rabbit hole?"
	You nod. The alien reaches out a paw to shake hands with you. "Welcome to Hai space," it says. "We are people of peace, and you are free to visit us or even live among us. Our worlds provide enough bounty for all."
The Hai here seem more friendly and approachable than those you met earlier. Even more surprising though is the fact that human merchants and other civilians are walking among them and are clearly at home here. Would you like to find someone who can tell you what is going on here?
	You walk up to a human merchant who is busy haggling with one of the Hai. They interrupt their conversation when they see you approaching, and the human gestures for you to join them. "You look lost," he says. "First time down the rabbit hole?"
	"No, I've actually met with the Hai up north," you respond. The merchant looks slightly concerned with this, but the Hai only seems to sigh.
	"Ah, you have met our wayward sisters and brothers. I hope that they did not cause you too much trouble, for they are misled in their ways," it says. "Welcome to Hai space. Unlike those that you met before, the rest of us are a people of peace, and you are free to visit us or even live among us. Our worlds provide enough bounty for all."
	You glance quickly at the human merchant to see his expression, wondering if these aliens can indeed be so benign, but his expression is calm and untroubled. "It's true," he says, "look around you. These buildings have stood for thousands of years. Hai society is so advanced, they need almost no resources to maintain it."
	"How did humanity reach this place? Did they use jump drives?"
	The human merchant raises an eyebrow. "Can't say I'm familiar with what a jump drive is. In case you aren't in the know, though, there's a wormhole in Hai space that connects back to a secluded part of human space. Don't bother trying to figure out why and how it's there, because not even the Hai know."
	"Why do you allow humans to settle here?"
	"What do you ask for in return for letting humans settle here?"
	"Humans are a young species," the Hai says, "full of energy, full of new ideas. And the Hai are old, and everything we do is what we have done before. When humans go on vacation, they travel to a world with perfect weather, sunny every day. When Hai go on vacation, we visit the stormiest world, to find unpredictability and change. Humans are so strange, that to speak with a human is like a small vacation." It smiles, and you catch a glimpse of its massive incisors. Based on your knowledge of xenobiology you would guess that the Hai are herbivores, but you can't be certain.
	"So I'm allowed to travel throughout your territory if I want?"
	"How come people back in human space don't know that you are here?"
	"If your people are peaceful then why are the Hai from the north so hostile?"
	The human merchant laughs. "Probably because most of us came here to escape from the chaos and fighting in human space. The last thing we want is for it to follow us here. Not that I'm saying you can't tell anyone about the wormhole, but if I were you I wouldn't go spreading the news too widely either. And take a look around Hai space before you leave; you'll find that we could learn a lot from them."
	"So I can travel anywhere I want in your territory?" you ask the Hai.
	"Yes," it says, "but be careful. The north is the territory of some renegade Hai who are misled in their ways: bandits and pirates, living off what they steal from the rest of us. If you travel among them, you will not be safe."
	"Also," the human adds, "I've heard rumors that the 'Unfettered' Hai are trying to get human captains who land on their worlds to do some tasks for them. I'm not particularly interested in finding out what those tasks are, but if you see something suspicious happening, that might be it."
	"If your people are peaceful then why are the Hai from the north so hostile?" you ask the Hai.
	"I am young, and the origins of our 'Unfettered' brethren are before my time," it responds. "If you want to know more, it might be wise to find someone much older than myself to ask."
	You talk for a while longer, but do not gain much additional information except that several of their worlds are willing to sell Hai technology even to human beings. You thank them both for stopping to talk with you, and the Hai responds, "We are always glad to welcome new friends. May peace dwell in your heart until we meet again."
The Hai are a species of giant, intelligent rodents, who live to the north of human space. They allow any humans who discover their territory to live alongside them, and to trade with them and purchase their technology.
Knowing you risked your life to save the <origin>, the captain gives you <payment>.
The Unfettered Hai say that they are the "true Hai," and seem to think that the other Hai are oppressing them, but another Hai that you spoke to said that the Unfettered Hai are simply misled. Would you like to look for someone here who can tell you more of the story?
	You find an elderly-looking Hai who is sitting on a bench watching the starships land and take off. As you approach, he says, "Hello human."
	"Hello. I've met some of the Unfettered Hai. What can you tell me about them?"
	"Hello. Can you tell me why you are at war with the other Hai who live to the north?"
	He says, "Ah, our wayward sisters and brothers to the north. You have surely seen what our society is like: safe, stable, predictable, deliberate. It suits most of us well. But there are those..."
	He says, "I would not call it war. We launch no raids on them. We only defend when they attack. And, we supply them with food and other things needful for life. They are not our enemies, they are just those who do not fit in. You have surely seen what our society is like: safe, stable, predictable, deliberate. It suits most of us well. But there are those..."
	He pauses. "No, I am telling this unfairly. I will start again. Hundreds of years ago, when I was young, our territory was raided by aliens from the east, who came in massive warships and plundered our worlds. In those days there were some Hai who were brave enough to risk their lives to defend us. The raids lasted for decades, then abruptly stopped.
	"Most of those who had fought the invaders were glad to return to ordinary life, but there were some for whom life now seemed bland and meaningless without the excitement and chaos of war. They started colonies in the systems to the north, and fought amongst themselves, and mismanaged the land, and grew in numbers. And now their worlds cannot feed them all, and they invade us and tell stories to put blame on us for their failures."
	"Shouldn't they be treated with gratitude for defending you against the raiders?"
	"They said the Drak altered the Hai to make them less aggressive. Is that true?"
	"That's all I wanted to know. Thanks."
	"They were, and still should be. There will always be times when our society needs them. Only at this time, the need is not so great. There is no new frontier for them to explore, no worthy challenges for them to face. And we fear what would happen if they ventured south and gained access to the wormhole, so we must force them to stay where they are."
	"No," he says, "it is a story they invented, that the Hai were destined to be masters of the galaxy but the Drak and the Quarg prevented us. The story is not true. Our civilization beyond the wormhole was brought down by infighting and unwise governance. Amid the wreckage we studied and thought and argued and came to believe that we could rule a small territory with stability and peace, or hold more worlds but with constant turmoil. We chose stability, and relinquished those worlds."
	"So you don't think the Drak are keeping us all in cages?"
	He thinks about the question for a while, then says, "Sometimes we make a fire for cooking food. The fire consumes much wood, and the flames are tall, too wild and hot to cook food well. Then the wood becomes coals that burn slowly with no flames or smoke, and when you gather them they are good for roasting meat or even baking bread. Perhaps each species must consume many worlds and many resources before learning to burn slowly, and the wisdom of the Drak is to allow them to do so. But when they find balance, as we did, they no longer need so much space."
	You thank him for taking time to speak with you, and say goodbye.
Bring Elliot home to his family on <destination>. Elliot ran away from his family as a teenager and hasn't seen them in almost six years.
You are stopped by a human in the <origin> marketplace. He takes off his hat and asks, "You're from the outside, aren't you?"
	"Yes, I am."
	"What do you mean 'the outside?'"
	"Outside of Hai space. You don't look quite like most humans who live here, unless there's some new fashion trend going on that I don't know about."
	"Oh, yes. I do come from outside."
	"Good. My name is Elliot." You introduce yourself to Elliot and shake hands.
	"Can you take me to <destination>?" Elliot asks.
	"That's all the way in the Dirt Belt," you say. "Why do you want to go that far?"
	Elliot looks down at the ground for a second and takes a deep breath while gripping his hat in his hands. "You see, I haven't lived here all my life. I was born on <planet> to a poor farming family. Most of my days were spent working on the farm, which I hated with a passion. One day I just got fed up with things and I ran away.
	"I ran away from home to the spaceport city and snuck my way into the cargo hold of a freighter. The captain didn't open the cargo hold for three weeks while I stayed in it. Lucky for me the freighter was transporting food, so I had plenty to eat.
	"When the cargo hold doors finally opened, I ran out as fast as I could, only to run back in at the sight of a group of Hai. I had no idea where I was at the time, but I've been living here ever since. That was when I was thirteen, nearly five years ago now."
	Elliot looks down at the ground again and wipes a tear from the corner of his eye.
	"Alright, I'll take you to <planet>."
	"And you finally want to go back home?"
	"Sorry, but I'm not able to take you that far."
	"Yes. I've thought a lot about it lately. I want to see my family again."
	"I understand," Elliot says. "I'll just try and find someone else to help me. Goodbye, <first>."
	You lead Elliot to your ship and show him to a bunk room. After leaving Elliot there, you wonder if his family is still even on <planet> anymore.
You look for Elliot, but realize that he took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Elliot thanks you for bringing him to <planet> and hands you <payment>. He flags down a taxi just outside the spaceport, but before entering the taxi he turns back to you.
	"Do you want to come with me? I'd love for you to meet my family. They'll want to meet you when I tell them how I got back."
	"Sorry, I have other places to be. Good luck."
	"Sure. I've come with you this far."
	"I understand. Thanks again, <first>. I'll always owe you."
	Elliot gets into the taxi, which drives off toward the seemingly endless farmlands outside of the spaceport city.
	The view for nearly the entire three hour drive is of hills and farmland with the occasional building or wild animal. Elliot shakes as the taxi approaches the house from the driveway. "I'm wondering if they still even live here," he says nervously.
	No one comes out of the house when the taxi stops. You walk up to the front door with Elliot and a middle-aged woman answers the door with a mug of coffee and a bewildered look on her face.
	"Can I help you?" the woman asks.
	Elliot looks over at you with a big smile on his face. "Yes you can, mom," he says to her. The woman's face lights up with joy and she begins jumping up and down, spilling coffee from her mug.
	"Oh Elliot, I can't believe it!" Elliot's mom puts down her mug and leaps out the door to hug him. "Jackson! Sarah! Abby! Sean! Victor! Elliot is here!" Elliot's entire family comes out from the house and greets him, asking dozens of questions about where and how he's been and why he left.
	Elliot introduces you to his family, who thank you for bringing Elliot home. Victor, who was only seven years old when Elliot left and is now twelve, asks you question after question about being a pilot, sometimes asking new questions before you can even answer the old one.
	"Are you going back to the spaceport, <first>?" the taxi driver yells from the driveway. "I need to get back to the city as soon as I can."
	You say goodbye to Elliot and to his family. "Thanks again, <first>," Elliot says. "I'll always owe you."
Bring a Hai child who hid in your cargo hold back to <destination>.
The "Check Cargo" light for your ship begins blinking when you land, meaning that a cargo crate may have come loose in flight. You shut off the ship's engines and walk to the cargo hold.
	You check every cargo crate in the hold, but can't find anything wrong. Right as you decide to leave, one of the smaller crates begins rocking back and forth.
	You hear a voice come from the crate, but it is not a language you understand. The voice continues to speak, and you recognize it as the Hai language.
	You open the crate and are met face to face with a Hai child. You aren't sure how old it is, but it looks to be about the size of a one-year-old human child. It tries to communicate with you, but begins to cry when it sees the confused look on your face.
	"Don't cry, little guy."
	(Pick up the Hai.)
	The child waves its hands around when you try to pick it up, making it impossible to grab on to. After waiting for a few minutes, the child finally calms down, eventually going to sleep in the crate.
	The child begins to cry even louder than before. After waiting for a few minutes, the child finally calms down, eventually going to sleep in the crate.
	You hear a voice come from the crate, and surprisingly your Hai translator begins speaking. "Let me out! I want to go home!"
	You open the crate and are met eye to eye with a Hai child. You aren't sure how old it is, but it looks to be about the size of a one-year-old human child. "I want my mommy!" it says as its eyes begin to tear up.
	"Where's your mommy?"
	The child looks surprised when your translation device speaks to it in Hai. "Take me home!" it yells back at you. You attempt to find out where the child's home is, but it continues to cry for its mother without giving any important information.
	This child must have somehow gotten into your cargo hold while you were in Hai space. Leaving a Hai child on this world would be an extremely bad idea. Perhaps someone on <destination> will be able to bring the child back to its family.
You contact the spaceport authorities of <planet> and ask them if they are looking for a lost Hai child. It turns out that the family was so worried that they put up a <payment> reward for finding their son. A Hai spaceport worker takes the child from your ship and thanks you for finding him for the family.
An Interesting Proposition
Travel with businessman David Turner to <destination> where a convoy of freighters are awaiting escort.
Walking through the <origin> spaceport, you notice that almost half of the people you see are humans, unlike other Hai worlds where the Hai outnumber humans by a sizable degree. A human dressed in a business suit shouts your name from across the street and approaches you.
	"Captain <last>, fantastic to see you again! I noticed you right away when I laid my eyes upon you and I must say, I'd like to thank you again for what you've done."
	The man is David Turner, who was involved in the movie production during the Hai crisis. Almost reflexively he goes to grab a business card from his pocket but then seems to remember and puts it back away. Seems to be exactly the same card as last time though.
	"Now Captain, if you have a moment, I'd like to make a proposition to you." Turner turns around and waves his arm across the crowd of people in the spaceport. "You see all the humans here? About one out of every four of these people only arrived here after war broke out through the wormhole. Captains who knew of the Hai came flocking here in droves after the Navy entered Kornephoros, hoping to avoid any troubles that the war would bring. Some captains returned after the war ended, but most stayed, and I see a massive market opportunity in that."
net worth
	"What kind of market opportunity?"
	"Sorry, but I don't have the time to talk about this."
	"You're only worth three billion credits? Why shouldn't I pursue your opportunity on my own?"
	"Of course you're worth more than me, Captain <last>, but you are no business owner. I have the connections and skills, but a name like yours will always help.
	You try to walk away, but Turner stops you by grabbing your arm and continues to talk.
	"Allow me to explain. The journey to the Hai can be a dangerous one, even with the new commitment to safety made by both governments. I heard many stories during the war of merchants trying to reach the Hai, but thanks to the Navy being distracted, those merchants fell victim to pirates patrolling the systems of the Far North. Even now, those pirates roam almost unchallenged, and many merchants are trapped here without the means to safely return. They expended most, if not all, of their ammunition trying to get here, and now they have none to defend them on their way back. Human ammunition has become a scarce commodity among human captains in this region of space, leaving open a market that's just waiting to be cornered.
	"I'd like you, Captain <last>, hero of humanity, to help me set up an outfitter here on <origin>, an outfitter that would supply these desperate merchants with relief by supplying them with the ammunition they need, along with outfits they might want to buy for their old ships. I've already received approval from the Hai government for the construction of an outfitter, and with a name like yours backing up this business, the profits are sure to be phenomenal, profits that you would be sharing in by being a founding member of this outfitter."
	"This sounds like a good idea to me. What do you need me to do?"
	"Sorry, but I'm not interested in your proposition."
	"Nonsense, Captain! All you'd need to do is help escort a few freighters from <planet> to Follower and back to here, and for so simple a job you could be receiving enough money to not work another day in your life, or perhaps even support a massive fleet."
	"Again, I'm not interested. Goodbye."
	"Alright, you have my attention."
	"Well, I tried, Captain," Turner says with a smirk. "I'll just have to travel back to the Paradise Worlds and make my money in other areas of business, then." He hands you another business card and winks. "Goodbye, Captain <last>. You should know where to find me if you need me. Perhaps we can pursue this venture together in the future."
	"Excellent, Captain! I'll be making myself comfy on my own ship. A convoy of freighters is waiting for us on <destination>. From there, we're off to Follower to pick up supplies."
You've reached <planet>, but you've left Turner behind. Wait for Turner's ship to arrive before landing.
The freighters are ready to launch by the time you get to <planet>. "Now we just need to escort these freighters to Follower in the Alphard system and back in one piece," Turner exclaims, hopping back on to his Star Queen.
Escort the freighters to <destination> where they will pick up supplies for the Greenwater outfitter.
You've reached <planet>, but you've left one of the ships you're supposed to be escorting behind. Wait for Turner's ship and all the Bulk Freighters to arrive before landing.
Escort Turner's ship to <destination> so that he can speak with an old friend.
Turner jumps off of his Star Queen before the boarding ramp fully reaches the ground, clearly eager to get moving with this project.
	Turner swears under his breath when he walks up to you. "Low life pirates giving us trouble on the way here. That's the kind of trouble I'm talking about that an outfitter in Hai space would help with. There's no telling what would have happened had my Bulk Freighters not had their missiles. Or if you were not there to protect them, of course."
	Turner has a talk with the spaceport authorities, and within a short amount of time the necessary cargo is loaded on to the freighters. When the freighters are fully loaded, they take off without even giving you time to get to your ship.
	"With their ammunition restocked they can get back to Greenwater on their own," Turner says from behind you as you watch the freighters fly off. "I told them to leave as soon as they could. As for you and me, I need an escort to <destination>. I received a message from an old friend there who would like to have a chat with me."
Escort Turner back to <destination> to oversee the construction of the outfitter.
Turner lands his ship outside of the Kraz Cybernetics building. "Wait here while I have a talk with my friend, Edward. This should only take a few minutes."
	A few hours later, Turner returns carrying a black suitcase. "Sorry, that took longer than I expected. Now, let's get back to <destination>."
Now apparently a frequenter of Hai space, he was instrumental in the creation of a human outfitter in Hai space, allowing merchants to arm themselves for the dangerous trip back to human space.
By the time you finally reach <planet>, construction on the outfitter is already underway. The construction workers have laid the foundation of the outfitter close to the spaceport, taking up a good portion of a park.
	"I had to pay a pretty penny to get the outfitter this close to the spaceport," Turner says to you, "but it'll all be worth it in the end. The outfitter should be done in three months or so. You'll know it's done once you find an extra two thousand credits in your pocket every day."
	Turner pats you on the back. "Have fun until then, Captain <last>. Keep yourself busy saving the galaxy."
A New Proposition
Meet with David Turner on <destination> to talk about a new proposition.
You receive a message from David Turner when you land. "Hello, Captain. I hope you've been enjoying your share in the outfitter. I have a new proposition for you, as I've bought out the rest of the park around the outfitter. Meet me on <destination> if you'd like to hear about it."
Escort the freighters to <destination> in order to pick up the supplies for the shipyard.
Turner meets you in a high-end human-owned restaurant in the richer part of the city, very much reminiscent of something you would find on a Paradise Planet. "It's been quite some time since we last spoke, Captain <last>. Over a year now," he says. "Have you been enjoying the extra cash in your pocket every day, Captain <last>?"
	"Yes. It's been a huge help paying crew salaries."
	"Two thousand credits each day isn't much for me."
	"I suppose two thousand credits every day wouldn't be much to a hero such as yourself. Spaceships are expensive, after all. How does four thousand credits every day sound to you?"
	"I'm glad to hear that, Captain <last>. I spent my early years as a captain myself, and I didn't much enjoy having to worry about crew salaries every day. Perhaps doubling that amount will help even more."
	"Am I getting a raise?"
	"Is this part of your new proposition?"
	"You could call it that," Turner says after sipping from his glass of wine.
	"Building an outfitter selling human goods here on <origin> has had to be the best idea I've ever had, Captain <last>, but recently I thought of an even better idea. You see, most of the humans you see flying around in Hai space are flying decades-old ships. Hai ships are prohibitively expensive for humans. The Hai sell the Aphid for nearly one and a half million credits! This means that demand for ships is extremely high among humans, Captain <last>. Do you see where I'm going with this? You look at something we humans sell like a Star Barge, which is hardly worse than an Aphid for only a quarter of the price, and you start to see the problem."
	"You need me to help you escort freighters again?"
	"Do you want to build a shipyard selling human ships?"
	"Yes, Captain. Right now, the only realistic way that a human born here can get a ship is if they know a captain willing to retire. Even then, prices for a human ship can be more than twice what they are across the wormhole. You'd think they could just get passage and buy a human ship over there, but those banks just don't recognize credit histories from this side. It's preposterous, Captain <last>!
	"I've already made arrangements with the local Hai government. The rest of the park next to the outfitter is now my property, and I intend to use it to build the shipyard. I've also contacted Megaparsec and bought a license to build their ships and some of the outfits they sell on <planet>. My freighters are at the ready in the spaceport right now. All I need you to do is escort them to <destination> and back, and in six to seven months' time when the shipyard is done, you'll reap the rewards. What do you say, Captain <last>? Do you want to be a hero to millions once again?"
	"Sure, this sounds like a great idea."
	"I'm not interested in working with you anymore, Turner."
	Turner smirks at your response. "Understood, Captain <last>. I'll just save myself two thousand credits a day from now on by rescinding your salary. I'll be seeing myself out now."
	"Goodbye."
	"Wait! I changed my mind. I'll help you."
	"Excellent decision, Captain <last>. I'll meet you outside to send the ships off."
The Bulk Freighters are loaded with supplies without any problem. When one of the spaceport workers asks Turner where the supplies are going, he replies, "These are just to expand a business venture of mine on, uh, Glory."
Escort the freighters back to <destination> to begin construction on the shipyard.
	Construction on the shipyard begins almost immediately after the supplies are unloaded from the freighters, starting with the demolition of the rest of the park. A downtrodden-looking crowd gathers to watch the demolition, but Turner assures you that there are plenty of other parks in the city for them to go to.
	"Something big is going to come of this, Captain <last>," Turner says. "Just know that you were all part of it. You'll know the shipyard is done when you find an extra four thousand credits in your pocket each day. Goodbye until then, Captain <last>."
On receipt of a new and unexpected deposit, you realize that the shipyard on Greenwater must now be operational.
Bring Arthur and his Hai friend Kiru to <destination> for a gaming convention by <date>
While eating in a spaceport cafeteria that serves both Hai and human cuisine, you are approached by a teenage human and Hai. "Hello. Do you know how to get to <destination>?" the Hai asks.
	"I do. Why do you want to go there?"
	"I don't. You'll have to ask someone else."
	The human responds, "There's a massive convention on <planet> for a game called 'Boundless Frontiers.' The convention has a huge cosplaying scene, and I think Kiru would fit right in."
	The human responds, "There's a massive convention on <planet> for a game called 'Boundless Frontiers.' Now that Kiru doesn't have to worry about pretending to be a cosplayer the whole time, we're really keen to go."
	"Arthur and I have <payment> to give you if you bring us to the <planet>," Kiru says. "We can find our own way back to the Hai space, as well."
	"Alright, I can take you there."
	"Sorry, you'll have to find someone else to bring you."
You look for Arthur and Kiru, but realize that they took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Arthur and Kiru pay you <payment> before running off to the convention center. As they run away, you notice that Kiru is drawing a number of eyes from the crowd, but no one seems to suspect that he is an actual alien.
Human and Hai respectively, both attended the Vinci cosplay convention without a costume, gaining much attention.
Bring Anaya and Touhar to <destination> for their honeymoon.
You hop around the spaceport of <origin>, trying to adjust to the low gravity of this moon, when you are approached by a toweringly tall human woman and an equally tall Hai male who are clearly having no trouble with <origin>'s gravity.
	"You look like you need help there, Captain," the woman says with a chuckle.
	"Don't worry. I almost have the hang of it."
	"Maybe a little bit."
	"It's always fun watching captains when they step off the comfort of their ship," the Hai says.
	"At least they're trying, Touhar," the woman says.
	"Can I help you two with something?"
	"Is there something I can help you with, or are you just going to watch me?"
	"Actually, there is something," the woman says. "My name is Anaya, and this is my husband, Touhar. And you are?"
	"My name is <first> <last>."
	"Wait, your husband?"
	"Very nice to meet you, Captain <last>," Touhar says to you.
	"What, you've never seen an interspecies couple before?" Touhar asks with a hint of sarcasm in his voice.
	"We got married last week, and we were hoping to travel to <destination> for our honeymoon. I know it's risky to bring Touhar into human space, but <planet> is a sparsely inhabited world, and I have a friend who owns a house in the mountains far from anyone who could see him."
	"We got married last week, and we were hoping to travel to <destination> for our honeymoon. Some people still tell us it's risky to bring Touhar into human space, especially to such a sparsely inhabited world as <planet>, but I have a friend who owns a house in the mountains, and it just seems like everything is working out so well right now."
	"Said friend will be able to arrange for our return to <origin> as well," Touhar adds. "Will you take us?"
	"Sorry, I can't travel that far from here."
You look for Anaya and Touhar, but realize that they took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Instead of landing in the spaceport where they can be seen, you drop Anaya and Touhar off as close as you can to where they will be staying. The house is a few kilometers away, but they assure you that they can make it on their own. They pay you <payment> and thank you for bringing them this far.
A Hai-human interspecies couple that you transported to their secluded honeymoon on Featherweight in human space.
Escort Nanachi to <planet>
Help Nanachi, a Hai who just bought her first ship, make a simple delivery to <destination> by <date>.
As you are making your way through the spaceport you notice a worried-looking Hai staring at the local job board and back at some sort of document they are holding.
	(Approach the Hai.)
	(Leave them alone.)
	The Hai is a bit startled, but quickly calms down. "Sorry, you caught me by surprise. I've just bought my first ship and need to find some jobs to do, but nobody I've talked to wants to trust a beginner captain. I just don't know what to do anymore, I've been working for so long to qualify for this loan, but I'm running out of time and I'll never be able to pay it like this."
	Turns out the documents she is holding are the bank papers for the loan, somewhat similar to the one you took when you bought your first ship. You've come a long way since your days as a beginner, and know how hard it is to be starting out as a starship captain; you could probably convince someone here to offer a simple cargo job to this young Hai.
	"If you're interested, I could try to help you find a job."
	"I've been there before; trust me, it gets better. I wish you the best of luck on finding a job."
	She nods in sad understanding, and continues to swap focus from the job board to the papers in her hand.
	(Help her out anyway.)
	(Leave her alone and continue on.)
	Her ears twitch a bit, and her previously crestfallen eyes light up as she nearly jumps in joy at your offer. "Thank you so much Captain! My name is Nanachi, I promise I won't cause any trouble at all, just a few quick jobs and I'm sure I'll be fine by myself!"
	You introduce yourself to Nanachi and shake her paw. "Can you show me your ship so I can look for jobs it's best suited for?" you ask.
	She hesitates a bit, but leads you to her ship. You were expecting a small Hai ship, but to your surprise she shows you a rather beat-up Heavy Shuttle docked near your own ship.
	"You took a loan to buy a human ship?" you ask.
	She looks at the ground, as if ashamed of it. "It'd take way too long for me to qualify for a loan for even an Aphid, but I recently met a human merchant who wanted to sell his old ship; it was difficult, but I managed to convince him to sell it to me instead of going to the shipyard office. I paid him its full price, but even for this one I had to take out the biggest loan I could. Its cargo hold isn't very impressive but it has more bunks than our smallest ships, if that helps."
	"Let's see if anyone in the spaceport needs a lift off the planet."
	"Let's take another look at the job board, maybe a smaller job will pop up."
	Turns out this isn't as easy as you thought it'd be. The spaceport is almost empty, save for the occasional worker or drunken crewmember, and the job board is filled with massive hauls of minerals, aside from a few small but dangerous jobs to human space. Eventually, as you two begin scouting the edge of the docking area, you spot a troubled human merchant near several crates. You approach him and he explains that his ship had some malfunctions and he cannot deliver his cargo of advanced surgical equipment to <destination>. "This is the worst! One jump away from the planet and the navigation system suddenly decides to go on strike! There's no way I can make it before the deadline!"
	"My friend Nanachi here could deliver it for you. We were heading there anyway; a few extra crates won't make a difference," you say, trying to sound as convincing as possible.
	At first, he seems delighted that you two want to help him, but when Nanachi mentions that she's flying a Heavy Shuttle, he frowns, and looks back at the cargo. "Unfettered attacks make it so they need tons of medical supplies on <planet>, and quite frankly I'm not comfortable letting such a fragile ship go into dangerous territory carrying this equipment when it could be blasted to bits in an instant," he says. The captain glances around the deserted spaceport for a while, as if trying to find some other captain, before finally turning to Nanachi and saying, "but I guess beggars can't be choosers. Fine, I'll let you take the cargo there, but please be very careful."
You have reached <planet>, but you left Nanachi's ship behind! Better depart and wait for her to arrive in this star system.
Shortly after her ship lands, you meet up with Nanachi, who is doing her best to hide her excitement at being on another planet for the first time, and is gawking at some Hai military ships in particular. "So, how did you like your first time doing a hyperspace jump?" you ask, to try and snap her out of it.
	"Oh um, I don't think I'll get used to the feeling anytime soon. I threw up a lot so I'm glad this wasn't a job with passengers. I've always dreamt of being on other worlds, exploring and learning everything about them. I'm glad I'm finally able to do it."
	You help her get the crates out of the cargo hold and contact the client. Nanachi's share of the payment is small, as the client transfers most of the money to the merchant she got the job from, but that doesn't make her any less excited about getting her first paycheck.
	"So, want to go to the spaceport and try to get a job on your own? I'll help you again in case you can't do it yet." you say.
	"Just give me an hour or two to explore. Back home our shipyard is kind of small. I've never really gotten a chance to see a Shield Beetle up close, and there are many undergoing repairs here. I'll just go get a better look at them, I swear I'll be quick."
	You two agree to meet in the spaceport in a few hours; maybe this time she will do fine on her own.
Bring Nanachi and her passengers to <destination>.
You meet up with Nanachi in the spaceport, give her some tips to try and persuade someone into hiring her, and tell her you'll be nearby if she still has trouble getting a job. You watch her go around the spaceport and approach some groups of humans and even other Hai to no avail. Maybe since this is a world seeing combat often, they're too busy with military related activities to help a new pilot. She manages to grab the attention of a Hai family leaving a restaurant carrying way too much luggage, most likely tourists looking for a ride back home. Everything seems to be going well until the parents start to look worried. It seems as if they might go away if you don't step in.
	You walk over to the group to help her, and get a better look at the family: a Hai couple carrying a baby, and three older children who aren't doing much to help their father carry their ludicrous number of bags.
	"Hey, what's going on?"
	"Can I be of assistance?"
	You introduce yourself and the parents tell you that they've been on vacation here and need transport back to <destination>. "Don't take this the wrong way, but Captain Nanachi told us her ship is one of your human ships, a Heavy Shuttle was it? It has enough bunks for us but our sons already caused a ruckus on the way here in a Hai ship, we're worried that since they aren't used to the accommodations, they might end up giving her too much trouble."
	You reassure them that the trip will be very quick, and that the ship's interior is somewhat similar to that of Hai ships, until they finally agree on traveling with her. They settle on the pay and the two of you help the Hai get their baggage to Nanachi's ship. When the family is focused on a conversation, you quietly ask Nanachi what the issue she was having with the other people she encountered.
	"They all seemed willing to give me a job, but I ended up blowing it when I asked for more money. I just really need to get out of debt so I guess I went a bit overboard." She tries to play it cool, but it's clear that she is embarrassed about losing so many potential jobs. When you reach her ship, you take a look at the prices for commodities in <system>. You decide to tell Nanachi to stock up on heavy metals to sell there, to help her make a bit more profit.
You help the family gather all their luggage and bid them farewell, but right as they disappear into a hallway Nanachi lets out a heavy sigh. "I bit off more than I could chew. Those kids kept wanting to play with the ship's controls, and one of them tried to go up the air vent in a game of hide-and-seek. I couldn't get any rest since I had to keep making sure they weren't about to dump their own bags into the void by accident."
	"Do you want to get some sleep before trying to find another mission?" you ask, hoping she won't try to overwork herself.
	"Yes, I could really use that. Sorry to make you wait again Captain <last>. I'll rest a bit, see if I can't find a spot nearby to relax, and meet up with you in the spaceport after a while."
Deliver spices with Nanachi
Accompany Nanachi to <stopovers> to pick up some Quarg spices for a festival on <destination> by <date>.
You send a message to Nanachi and you two meet up in the spaceport. You're still walking toward the job board, when she asks: "Back home I heard stories about how humans have a much larger population than the Hai, and that their home planet has even more people than Hai-home. Is it true that there are many other human worlds with spaceports this large?" You name her a few human planets that are extremely populous, and how even some planets with fewer people than this world have incredibly large spaceports.
	While you tell her stories of many different planets you've visited, she seems to be particularly interested in Earth. "I've seen a bit of human architecture in videos of planets like Allhome, but I can't even imagine what your capital must look like. Tens of thousands of years of another species' history, it sounds even more exciting than what I heard about our landmarks on Hai-home. Captain, do you think that someday, when we no longer need to be kept hidden from humanity, that I'll be able to visit Earth, and see the beauty of your capital?" Seeing how little she knows about humanity, it's not surprising that she is unaware of the state that Earth is in.
	While you tell her stories of many different planets you've visited, she seems to be particularly interested in Earth. "I've seen a bit of human architecture in videos of planets like Allhome, but I can't even imagine what your capital must look like. Tens of thousands of years of another species' history, it sounds even more exciting than what I heard about our landmarks on Hai-home. Captain, do you think that someday, when I have a bigger ship or when the routes are safer, that I'll be able to visit Earth, and see the beauty of your capital?" Seeing how little she knows about humanity, it's not surprising that she is unaware of the state that Earth is in.
	"I've never actually been to Earth before, so I couldn't tell you what it's like."
	"Earth is a beautiful place, so it would be nice if you could see it."
	"Earth isn't actually that great a place to visit. Most of its inhabitants would take any chance they're given to leave it."
	"Oh, sorry about that, shouldn't have assumed you knew everything, you're a starship captain after all, not a historian, I'll just ask someone else when I get the chance," says Nanachi.
	You start making up stories about how beautiful the skies of Earth are. You describe forests teeming with life, and do your best to remember ancient civilizations and their monuments. From the looks of it she believes you, and your lie seems to have sated her curiosity for now. If the day where the Hai are allowed to move around human space ever comes, though, she will no doubt be extremely disappointed.
	You start making up stories about how beautiful the skies of Earth are. You describe forests teeming with life, and do your best to remember ancient civilizations and their monuments. From the looks of it she believes you, and your lie seems to have sated her curiosity for now. If she does manage to be successful enough to fly to Earth one day, though, she will no doubt be extremely disappointed.
	She looks at you in confusion, as if trying to understand what you mean, so you explain it to her. "Despite how much humanity has advanced in the past centuries, Earth has been largely neglected. Most of the land has been turned into cities, which have over the years decayed into slums. If you ever managed to visit you'd be better off going to museums or monuments, but even then there are many thieves roaming the streets and it is very dangerous to be out at night. Lots of folks born there just think about how to get out."
	You keep telling her about the issues facing humanity's birthplace, and her previous eagerness to learn about the planet fades. "How could your ancestors let their own home become like this?"
	"Long-term planning has never been a strong trait of humanity as a whole."
	"I guess it isn't too unlike how the Unfettered have treated their worlds."
	Nanachi looks confused, so you continue to elaborate on that idea. "They're expecting to be able to have new worlds soon, so they consider the decay of their current ones as acceptable losses. Humans have also had issues with long-term planning and preparing for adverse events."
	"I see..." She says. "I just thought it would be fun to hear about another large planet like Hai-Home. Sorry for asking about it, Captain, I'm sure having to speak of it wasn't a pleasant feeling."
	Although you're sure that even in Hai space there is social inequality, she probably can't fathom that the home planet of a species could be in such bad shape, considering the Hai even go as far as to send aid to the Unfettered on a regular basis.
	You two reach the job board and decide to start looking for jobs suited for Nanachi's ship.
	"So, do you mind if I help out? I know the job board can be confusing the first few times you check it."
	"Do you think you need me to help out this time?"
	"Thanks, but I have to do this on my own. I promise I won't mess this up by getting greedy again," She approaches the board on her own, and it becomes clear that it's much easier to get a job here; she's barely started talking to one of the desk workers before receiving a long list of jobs for smaller ships. She is certainly still very tired, but this seems to have cheered her up a bit; it is the first time she can get a job without your help after all.
	While you thought she would've picked one or two jobs quickly and headed back to her ship, she keeps going through them and double checking the information for each one, as if something about them bothers her.
	"What's wrong? Are you struggling to pick between two different jobs?" you ask.
	"These all seem very easy and I could even accept many at a time, but the problem is their pay isn't very good." She grabs some worn papers from her pocket, and shows it to you: they're the documents for her loan. "The bank back home would only give me enough for the ship if I agreed on a short-term loan. I lost two days before you came along to help me, and if I don't get some better paying job soon, I won't even be able to pay the interest."
	As you're trying to figure out a way to get the most out of the available missions, you feel a tap on your shoulder, and turn to see a Hai standing beside a human couple. The couple introduce themselves as Xavier and Vanessa, who are here with their Hai friend Narancia. "We overheard your conversation and are willing to pay a little extra for a job. We're part of a group organizing a big festival in Allhome to celebrate the friendship between humans and Hai, and we just got a last-minute idea: we'd like to get our hands on some Quarg spices."
	Nanachi perks up during their conversation. "I'm sure I can get the spices to <planet> within two weeks. I won't let you down!"
	"That's wonderful," Narancia says. They tell Nanachi that they won't be going along; they already have a transport to Allhome, and will stay here a bit longer to try and advertise the event. "Just come to Allhome after you've picked up the spices. Safe travels!"
A spaceport worker contacted Nanachi shortly before you two landed and made sure the spices were ready to be loaded in her ship. You help the workers and Nanachi make sure everything is in order, and prepare for your trip to Allhome.
You have reached <planet>, but you haven't finished the mission yet! Either you left Nanachi's ship behind or you haven't visited <stopovers>.
Allhome's docking area shows much more traffic than usual. Many captains here are helping workers open cargo containers full of food, clothes, books, movies and even some mounted animals from human space. You finally meet up with the festival's organizers, who seem very excited to have acquired the exotic condiments, and have invited you two to a bar in the spaceport for a drink.
Protect Nanachi
Bring Nanachi's ship to <stopovers>, keeping her safe from a pirate fleet that attacked a convoy heading to Hai space, then head back to <destination> by <date>.
The bar is just as busy as the docks. Many captains here must have transported something for the festival. "Captain <last>, Captain Nanachi!" shouts Narancia, beckoning the two of you to join her and the others at their table. You learn that they were inspired by the Hai's own March festival, and wanted to bring small parts of human culture to Hai space.
	"They can't go to our planets and experience it for themselves yet, so we thought about bringing it to them!" Vanessa says.
	"It's still quite an expensive ordeal to go to our planets and experience it for themselves, so we thought about bringing it to them!" Vanessa says.
	"It was very hard to get enough sponsors for this, but after years of hard work we even managed to have famous art pieces be brought here, some of which date back to the European Renaissance!" Xavier adds.
	Afterwards the conversation topic shifts to you as a captain, as you describe your journey after buying your first ship, and how you met Nanachi. You're about to order another drink for the group when a grizzled old man barges into the bar, and starts shouting: "The art convoy has been attacked! The freighter managed to escape but they're stranded on Prime now, and the pirates are still out there, patrolling the route to the wormhole!"
	Xavier stands up with a shocked expression. "How? We had a Leviathan escorting them!"
	After catching his breath, the man at the door responds. "The pirates must have been stealing Hai tech from ships going back home. The freighter's captain said they shredded the escort!" Chaos spreads amongst the other captains, and the group sitting with you is in anguish.
	"Are those art pieces really that valuable?"
	"Can't you just postpone the festival until the pirates are taken care of?"
	Xavier collapses back to the table, holding his head in both hands. "Those paintings and sculptures were our main attraction! They're worth tens of billions! It'll take months before the Navy ever notices the pirates there and makes it safe for the convoy to come here. The art exhibition is scheduled three weeks from now!"
	As they try to figure out what to do, Nanachi speaks up. "I'll go there. I pilot a human ship and if we just need to transfer cargo from one ship to the other, I could get out of there quickly. Nobody would notice that a Hai ever went there."
	Xavier collapses back to the table, holding his head in both hands. "Those paintings and sculptures were our main attraction! They're worth tens of billions! Even if we contact the Navy it will take weeks before they can mobilize to hunt them down and guarantee that they've made it safe for the convoy to come here, and the hazard pay to request a carrier escort is frankly ridiculous. The art exhibition is scheduled for only three weeks from now!"
	Some of them eye you as they try to figure out what to do, but Nanachi speaks up before any well-formed ideas are reached, "I'll go there. I pilot a human ship and if we just need to transfer cargo from one ship to the other, I could get out of there quickly. It's not an impressive ship either, so it's much more likely to go unnoticed or uncared for."
	"Are you insane?" Vanessa says, "If they managed to take down that Leviathan, you wouldn't last a second! Besides, our convoy was extremely fast. If even they were caught, your chances of outrunning the pirates are next to nothing!"
	"Captain <last>," Nanachi turns to you. "I know you already helped me way more than anyone would ever be willing to, and I'm really grateful for that, but would you be willing to help me one last time, to get to that planet, and travel back here?"
	It's certain that for a pirate fleet to take down a Leviathan so easily they must be incredibly powerful, and this could be extremely dangerous. You're sure that if Nanachi tries to get to Prime by herself she'll just get herself killed.
	"Alright, I'll make sure we reach Prime and get back here safely."
	"No, I agreed to help you find and deal with some simple jobs, but I can't risk fighting such a fleet by myself."
	She thanks you profusely, and promises that she'll pay you for everything as soon as she can. The organizers are a bit hesitant, but seeing as no other captain here has decided to offer them help, they agree to let the two of you go to Prime and retrieve the cargo.
	Vanessa grabs ahold of Nanachi's arm before she can run off to the spaceport. "Just remember, if you can't get back here by <day>, don't worry about it; we'll understand. I'm sure we can come up with some alternative to have the festival without our main attractions."
	As you're leaving the bar, Xavier pulls you aside, speaking very quietly, "<last>, I know you're just trying to help this girl, but don't get killed over this. If you run into those pirates don't try to fight them, just rush to Prime."
	As you're leaving the bar, Xavier pulls you aside, speaking very quietly. "<last>, I know you're no stranger to combat and danger, but don't get killed over this. The girl won't know what's sensible for her if it gets hairy, and she shouldn't have to get killed over this. If you run into those pirates don't try to fight them, just rush her through. I have faith in a person such as yourself."
The convoy's captain messaged you as you entered the system and told you to land on a remote, hidden area of Prime, where they have already prepared for all the cargo to be transferred. They refuel your ships and urge you two to go back. "Captain Nanachi can stay hidden with us here if you need supplies or anything from the outfitter, but please don't take too long."
A young Hai merchant captain who struggled in the beginning of her career. Her fortune turned when she was able, against difficult circumstances, to deliver a valuable collection of human arts on time to the organizers of a Hai festival.
Landing back on Allhome, the festival group gives you and Nanachi a warm hug. "We sold tens of thousands of tickets for the festival by promising to host a great art exhibition with pieces from all over human space. Without them it'd be a complete failure, and we'd be in serious trouble with our sponsors," Narancia explains.
	As the cargo is rushed to the exhibition site, Nanachi shows you the chip she got as payment, and the balance of her bank account: this last payment allowed her to fully pay off her loan. "Captain," she speaks with some difficulty, and tries to hide her face, as if to wipe away some tears. "I'll never be able to thank you properly, if not for you I'd still be lost in that spaceport, and would eventually have to go back to my mining job. I'll work hard now; I'll save up and pay you for everything!" She hugs you and bows to you in a way you'd see in movies, as if trying to imitate the gesture. You two finally say goodbye, and head back to your ships.
Shortly after you land, you get a message from Nanachi, the young Hai pilot who you helped start out. "Dear Captain <last>, I hope you're doing well! As I promised, ever since we parted ways, I've been working towards getting enough money to pay you for being so kind to help me. I've sent you <payment>. I'm deeply grateful to you for helping make my dream come true."
After you leave your ship and start making your way through the docking area, you notice a Hai running towards you and waving. As they get closer, you realize that it's Nanachi, the Hai pilot who you helped out years ago.
	"I was just about to go back to my crew when I saw you coming out of your ship. I know a nice snack bar here, let's go there!" Before you can even say hello, she's dragged you to the bar, and ordered some drinks for the two of you. She tells you about her last few years as a captain. She has long since sold her old ship, and now pilots a Geocoris, transporting large amounts of cargo across Hai space. You also tell her about how your life has been ever since you last met, of your adventures and how far you've come. You keep swapping stories for hours, until the bar is ready to close.
	You thank her for the drinks, and get ready to say your goodbyes.
	"Oh wait, before you go Captain, let me give you something," she says, right as you're about to head to your ship. She grabs a small pendant from her pocket.
	"Back home in Giverstone, when I had some free time from the mining works, I took a hobby of sculpting some small stones into ship miniatures. I thought it'd be nice to make one for you, in case I ever saw you again. I made it from the same stones we use as good luck charms on our ships." She gives you the pendant, which has been sculpted into a Hai Shield Beetle. It is extremely well made, with different surface textures representing the different parts of the Shield Beetle. "I wanted it to be something to make your travels easier, the way you helped with starting mine. Thanks again, Captain!" You two part ways, and head back to your ships.
New Unfettered ships
Ambassador Sayari has informed the council of elders of the development of the Solifuge. The council is interested in meeting with you on <destination> to hear more.
After you finish landing, you're approached by a Hai in a formal uniform. "Greetings, Captain <last>. Ambassador Sayari has sent word to the council of elders that our Unfettered brethren have created a new ship of great strength. The council has requested your presence on <planet>; Sayari said you have been in combat with these ships, and the elders are interested in your expertise."
Hull Repair Technology
The Hai are working on a drone carrier to counter the Unfettered Solifuge, but the creator of the ship is still developing hull repair to make it more effective in combat. Visit <planet> to help the Hai with this technology when you are able.
The Hai are working on a drone carrier to counter the Unfettered Solifuge, but the creator of the ship is still developing hull repair to make it more effective in combat. Travel to <planet> to meet the delegation tasked with negotiating for this technology.
You've returned to <origin>, but you don't have access to any hull repair technology. Explore the galaxy and earn the trust of an alien faction that has hull repair technology before returning.
You've returned to <origin> to help the Hai develop hull repair technology. Osen's father asked if you knew of any aliens with hull repair technology, and you have met the Coalition, who have outfits capable of repairing hulls, and the Remnant, who have ships that repair themselves. Would you like to tell the elders about one of these groups?
You've returned to <origin> to help the Hai develop hull repair technology. Osen's father asked if you knew of any aliens with hull repair technology, and you have met the Coalition, who have outfits capable of repairing hulls. Would you like to tell the elders about the Coalition?
You've returned to <origin> to help the Hai develop hull repair technology. Osen's father asked if you knew of any aliens with hull repair technology, and you have met the Remnant, who have ships that repair themselves. Would you like to tell the elders about the Remnant?
	You inform the elders that you have discovered a group that could help them with creating hull repair technology, and they invite you to the council chamber. "Greetings, Captain <last>," one of the elders says to you upon entering the chamber. "What news do you have to bring us on your search for hull repair technology?"
	"There is a group of three alien species far from here known as the Coalition that have outfits able to repair a ship in flight."
	"There is a group of humans far from here known as the Remnant who have ships that can repair themselves."
	"A group of humans with hull repair technology?" one of the elders asks with a puzzled look. "I am surprised that we have not heard of these humans before. Are they well known among the Republic?"
	"No," you explain. "They are a reclusive group unknown to most of humanity. They likely wouldn't take kindly to being visited by aliens."
	"A group of three aliens?" one of the elders asks with a puzzled look. "It is not often in the galaxy that such groups appear."
	"We will put together a delegation for you to transport to these people you mention. They will be waiting for you on <destination>," another elder says. "You may lead them to make contact with this group how you see fit. We trust that you will be capable in doing so."
Contact the Remnant
Take a message from the Hai to <stopovers> to set up a meeting between the Remnant and the Hai, then return to <destination>.
You find the Hai delegation meant to travel to the Remnant to negotiate for the hull repair technology waiting for you in the spaceport. The leader of the delegation introduces herself as Ambassador Yashili. "I heard that we will be traveling a great distance across the galaxy. May we have a safe journey."
	The delegation begins making their way to your ship, but you stop them.
	"Wait a minute! This group doesn't react well to strangers. How about I set up a meeting first?"
	"Not so fast. The Remnant value their secrecy, and I haven't spoken to them about this situation. Let me set up a meeting first."
	The Hai look at each other and chatter quietly among themselves, then Ambassador Yashili speaks up. "You know this group, and how to make the best impression on them." She pauses to whisper to another Hai, who runs off. The Ambassador turns back to you. "I will provide you with a letter that will include a brief introduction of the Hai, an explanation of why we would like to meet them, and an invitation to establish diplomatic relations."
	Moments later, the Hai who ran off returns carrying a sealed envelope and hands it to the Ambassador. She turns to you. "Here it is. Please take this to these reclusive humans for us. We will be waiting here for your return."
	"Will do," you respond after taking the envelope. The delegation says its goodbyes, wishing you safe travels, before leaving.
Looking around the spaceport, you are not sure who to talk to about such a diplomatic request. Eventually, you go to the starport information desk to ask them. You hand the letter to the person at the desk, and after reading it, they invite you to wait in the cafeteria while they look for someone who can fulfill the request from the Hai.
	After an hour of watching Remnant eating and gesturing to each other, an androgynous Remnant approaches your table. You try to guess what age they are, but while they do not seem young, neither do they seem particularly old.
	"Greetings, Captain <first>," The stranger signs. "My name is Rayn, and my colleague said you had a request from another faction. It is my understanding that they desire the means to repair the hull of a ship in flight. Is this correct?"
	"Yes. The Hai are hoping to be able to improve a new carrier they are developing to repair its drones."
	"Yes. The Hai want to be able to repair the hulls of their ships to gain an edge against their enemies."
	"So the Hai want to improve their military technology? I presume this is in response to their long-standing war against the Unfettered?"
	"Yes, although they don't think of it as such."
	"It isn't a war; it's a defensive action."
	Rayn looks amused. "It does not matter what they call it. A war by any name is just as bloody. But that aside, how do they know about us to make such a request?"
	"They were looking for someone who had repair technology, and I said I could find someone."
	"They asked if I knew anyone who had in-flight repair technology, and I said I knew a group of human researchers."
	"So they do not actually know about us. That is good." Rayn looks thoughtful and closes their eyes for a moment, then continues. "Pick up the Hai diplomats, but do not tell them where you are going. Take them to these coordinates on Covert in the Gienah system. It is a location in an uninhabited area where we will be able to talk. We will be waiting with something that might be able to help them - if they can meet our price."
Meet with the Remnant
Transport Ambassador Yashili and her delegation to <destination> to attempt to obtain hull repair technology from the Remnant.
The Hai delegation to meet the Remnant requires 3 bunks for the trip, but you don't have enough available space! Return when you have room for the delegation.
You message Ambassador Yashili and tell her that you have arranged a meeting with the Remnant. "This is good news. We will be meeting with you in the spaceport shortly."
	Some time later the delegation arrives at your ship. "Before we leave, is there anything we need to know about this group before we meet them?" Yashili asks.
	"The Remnant are a group of humans, so there isn't anything special you should need to know."
	"The Remnant agreed to meet you on <planet>, a dangerous pirate world, so don't stray too far from the ship."
	"Oh," Yashili exclaims with a surprised look. "Are these Remnant also dangerous people?"
	"No, they're friendly people," you reassure her. "They just don't want to meet in their own territory."
	The delegation thanks you for this information and boards your ship. You plot a course for <destination>. Hopefully, the Remnant will be willing to share with an alien species they just met.
It appears that the delegation is bunked on escorts that have not arrived in this system yet. Take off and wait for them.
Technology Obtained
The delegation has successfully obtained hull repair technology from the Remnant. Return to <destination> so that the Hai can begin developing this technology for their new ship.
You need <capacity> in order to return the Hai delegation and the repair technology back to <planet>.
At the designated coordinates, there is a small encampment set up that looks vaguely reminiscent of a desert trader outpost. Aside from a few camels tied near a water trough, the place looks abandoned. When you touch down next to it, the delegation steps out cautiously. "Is this the right place?" one of the Hai asks somewhat worriedly.
	Before you can answer, a number of Remnant emerge from the tents, and you notice that Rayn is among them. "Welcome to our encampment, representatives," Rayn chants. "Captain <first> brought us your missive, and we asked them to bring you here. Would you care to come inside?" They gesture toward the largest of the tents. While obviously surprised, Ambassador Yashili acquiesces, and the Hai step inside. Rayn gestures for you to follow. The remaining Remnant begin patrolling around the camp.
	Rayn offers food and water to the Hai and then takes a seat on a cushion on the ground. The Hai politely refuse the food before joining Rayn on the cushions. Ambassador Yashili begins. "We come representing the Hai people, who live far from here. Some of our brothers and sisters have turned violent toward us, and have recently created a new ship that may cause us trouble. We have created a ship of our own in retaliation, but we are still in need of technology capable of repairing the hull of a ship while in flight so that we may have an advantage. Captain <last> has told us that you have such technology, with ship hulls that repair themselves."
	"It is true that our ships self repair," Rayn responds. "But this is not technology that we are able to share. The property is intrinsic to the metals that we build our ships with - metals which are in low supply." Yashili looks concerned with this development; perhaps this journey was a worthless one.
	"So is there no way that you can help them?"
	"There must be something we could do."
	"Do not fear, for we have something else. For many decades, we have been fighting and plundering Korath raiders from the Core. Their ships contain outfits capable of hull repair through the use of small robots. We have been unable to reproduce these robots with ease, but we may be able to provide for you our research and a number of samples that you may use."
	"We too have encountered these Korath," Yashili says in response. "Although, we had not taken their technology. This may be of great use to us."
	"We would like to ask something in trade, however: a copy of your astronomical records. The history of the galaxy itself is a mystery to us, and we would like to learn more about it."
	Ambassador Yashili looks thoughtful, then nods. "Historical astronomical data is scientifically valuable, as is learning how to repair our ships in flight. This seems a fair trade. We should be able to have the data for you shortly. We only need use of Captain <first>'s ship to access the hyperspace communication relays." Yashili nods to another member of the delegation, who then scurries off to your ship.
	"I imagine there will be a large amount of data to transfer," Rayn says. "Let us pass the time."
	Ambassador Yashili and Rayn settle into diplomatic small talk. The conversational dance between a group of professional diplomats and a secretive group that are currently playing the role of nomadic desert traders is an odd one.
	"While we wait, I am curious how you met these Remnant, Captain," Yashili says.
	"I spend much of my time exploring the galaxy. Sometimes you stumble upon interesting things."
	"Well, the same way I'd imagine most people found you - by just wandering aimlessly."
	Yashili nods. "This is an understandable situation."
	An hour of conversation later, the Ambassador's assistant returns with a large data drive and hands it to her. The Remnant pull out a data chip of their own, and the two groups formally exchange the data. In response to an unseen signal, another Remnant pulls back one side of the tent, and a team carries in a segment from a systems core with several of the small robots. "There are more of these waiting outside, but here is a sample for you to inspect. Using the instructions we have provided, you should have no problem making use of this technology." They poke at the console, and the robots promptly spring to life and assemble a small pile of parts into a model ship.
	"Thank you for doing business with us," says Ambassador Yashili. "You have a friend in the Hai." She bows and the Remnant return the bow with fluid grace before quickly shouldering the Korath equipment. They load everything onto the <ship> as the delegation boards, and you set out to return to <planet>.
	As you take off, a final glance at your exterior cameras shows the Remnant have already almost finished packing up their encampment onto the camels. As one tent comes down, it reveals an anti-aircraft artillery cannon installed on a sled. Despite the rustic appearance they portrayed, the Remnant certainly took their security seriously. There is still no ship visible, but you suspect that a Starling or Gull is undoubtedly hiding nearby.
Contact the Coalition
Transport Ambassador Yashili and her delegation to <destination> to attempt to obtain hull repair technology from the Coalition.
The Hai delegation to meet the Coalition requires 3 bunks for the trip, but you don't have enough available space! Return when you have room for the delegation.
You find the Hai delegation meant to travel to the Coalition to negotiate for the hull repair technology waiting for you in the spaceport. The leader of the delegation introduces herself as Ambassador Yashili. "I heard that we will be traveling a great distance across the galaxy. May we have a safe journey."
	"Is there anything that we should know about this Coalition before meeting them?" another member of the delegation asks.
	"The Coalition are a group of three species that live in harmony, just like the humans and Hai here. They should enjoy meeting new aliens."
	"The Coalition hate the Quarg and went to war with them many millennia ago in order to drive them out of their space."
	"That is most concerning," Yashili says with nods of agreement from the other two members of the delegation. "Hopefully the presence of the Quarg in Hai space will be of no issue to them." Yashili thinks for a moment. "Or perhaps we could use this information to our advantage."
	The delegation gathers their things and boards your ship, and you plot a course for <destination>. Hopefully the Coalition will be willing to share with an alien species they just met.
The delegation has successfully obtained hull repair technology from the Coalition. Return to <destination> so that the Hai can begin developing this technology for their new ship.
Before landing, you notify the Heliarch that you're bringing alien ambassadors to meet with them, and sure enough a Heliarch delegation is waiting for you when you land. They briefly salute you, but appear to be much more interested in the strange new beings you've brought to their center of government.
	The Hai delegation is momentarily confused by the unusual speech pattern the Coalition species have, but snap out of it shortly. The Heliarch then start explaining their story to the Hai, the same they told you when you first met them, including their warning about the Quarg. While both delegations are engaged in conversation, a Heliarch agent approaches you, asking, "To this precious encounter, with what purpose have you brought these people, Captain?"
	"They're in need of your help."
	"They come seeking technology."
	You start talking to them about the Hai and their conflict with the Unfettered, but as you're explaining you hear a loud collective gasp coming from the Heliarchs that are conversing with the Hai. A member of the Heliarch delegation approaches you. "Captain <last>, kindly telling us about their territory and society, your friend Yashili has. Truthful, is it, that close to the Hai planets, a ringworld the Quarg have constructed?"
	The others seem to be in an excited conversation of their own, after changing their translation devices to no longer speak human. Yashili and the other Hai also turn to you, looking somewhat confused, waiting for you to respond for them.
	"The Quarg are indeed there, but they stay out of Hai business, and the Hai stay out of theirs."
	"Yes, the Quarg have a single system there with a complete ringworld, where many Hai and even some humans also live."
	The Heliarchs speak among themselves at a rapid pace, and before you know it several dozen other agents are around. One of them, an older Saryd with a golden circlet, says, "Tell us more about this ringworld, you must, Hai friends. Accompany us, would you?"
	Without waiting for the Hai delegation to answer, they practically drag them to a restricted section of the ringworld without you. About an hour later, the Hai are brought back, most with tired expressions.
	"Had I known we would be interrogated on the engineering aspects and the inner workings of a ringworld, I would have had an engineer come with us," Yashili whispers to you.
	The Heliarchs once again warn the Hai to be careful with the Quarg before finally letting the Hai explain the reason for their trip here.
	The delegation still looks a bit overwhelmed, as if still processing all the history the Heliarch just told them, but Yashili has kept her composure and begins speaking. "We come representing the Hai people, who live far from here. Some of our brothers and sisters have turned violent toward us, and have recently created a new ship that may cause us trouble. We have created a ship of our own in retaliation, but we are still in need of technology capable of repairing the hull of a ship while in flight so that we may have an advantage. Captain <last> has told us that you possess such technology."
	"Developed such technology, indeed we have," an Arach agent responds. "Composed of several dozens of small repair bots, and their center of command, such outfits are."
	"So are you willing to give or sell one of those outfits to the Hai?"
	"Would you share the way of mass producing those outfits with the Hai?"
	"Much involved in projecting our repair modules, House Chamgar is," the same Arach says. "Contact their representatives in this ring, we will."
	"Do you desire anything in return?" Yashili asks the agent.
	"In return, we ask nothing. Helping you extend beyond the limits placed upon you by the Quarg, enough of a reward is," the Arach responds. Yashili looks somewhat puzzled, but does not press the issue any further.
	A short time later, a group of Arachi representing House Chamgar arrive. They have the Hai describe their ships, using this information to optimize the repair module for Hai ships. They then prepare a copy of the blueprints, handing a data chip containing the schematics for the hull repair modules and their hull-walking robots to the Hai. Some workers then load a crate with two small modules onto your ship for the Hai to use as examples. Yashili thanks the Coalition for their generosity and boards your ship, ready to return to <destination>.
Yashili contacts the elders as you land, informing them that you have obtained the hull repair technology. They agree to meet you in the spaceport along with Osen. A group of spaceport workers begins unloading the samples from your cargo bay after you land.
	As you depart your ship, you spot the Hai elders and Osen approaching. Ambassador Yashili and the Hai delegation step forward to meet them.
	"I hope the Remnant treated you well," one of the elders says.
	"They were an interesting group. Very reclusive, and not willing to share much of their people, but they were more than willing to help after we provided them with a copy of our historical astronomical data."
	"I hope the Coalition treated you well," one of the elders says.
	"They were an interesting group. Very enthusiastic about meeting new people, although very touchy on the subject of the Quarg."
	Yashili then hands the copy of the data to Osen. "You'll be needing this," she says.
	"And I'll certainly love it," Osen responds. "The spaceport workers have already sent the cargo en route to my shipyard. I'll begin working on implementing it into the Pond Strider immediately."
	"Pond Strider?"
	"I hope you have fun with that."
	"Yes. That is the name that we settled on for the ship, and its drones will be named the Flea."
	"I'm getting itchy just thinking about it," one of the elders jokes.
	"It's hard not to have fun when you love doing your job."
	Osen is about to run off, but one of the elders stops him. "Can you give us any estimate on how long it will take to make use of this data?"
	"Oh, yes," Osen says. "It may take us a few months to get everything working. A single month at the least if we are lucky."
	"This is good to know. The sooner we have these ships functional, the better."
	Osen once again gets ready to run off, but this time stops himself and turns to you. "Thank you Captain. Without this information, it could have taken me years to finish this project." You nod in response, and Osen finally runs off to his shipyard.
	"I would like to thank you as well," Yashili says. "It has been some time since I have had the chance to leave our space. It is always exciting to go to new places and meet new people." Yashili bows to you, and you return a bow of your own.
	"And we also need to express our gratitude," one of the elders says. "It is good to have you as a friend of the Hai. We shall keep you no longer, though. May you stay safe on your adventures."
Upon landing on <planet>, you receive a message from Osen. "Hello Captain <last>! I hope this message finds you well. I would like to once again thank you for your help on the Pond Strider, and would like to inform you that we have finished implementing the hull repair technology that you have provided us into the Pond Strider design and have now begun producing the ship on a mass scale. You'll also be interested to find that we have developed new weaponry for the Pond Strider's drone, the Flea. I won't spoil the surprise for you though. Check the shipyard on Hai-home the next time you stop by to take a look at it."
As you are walking through the spaceport, you come across the uncommon pairing of a Hai and a human, their conversation standing out by virtue of speaking the common tongue of humanity.
	"Oh, oh, Gemanari, this looks interesting!" The human woman looks to be in her late sixties and, when you turn to look, seems to be clucking over a holographic advertisement for a theater show. "This looks adorable, doesn't it? Oh, and it says they're using ripple ray refractive holographic flight effects!"
	The advertisement does indeed look very impressive, and you pause to observe for a moment.
	The Hai, presumably Gemanari, also appears to be a more mature lady who squints at it and wrinkles her nose. "Ugh, that's the Germontian interpretation though."
	This receives a puzzled look to which Gemanari thinks for a second before clarifying. "You would say the Social Darwinist interpretation."
	The lady grimaces and makes like she's vomiting. "I can't believe you still have those schools of thought in a society this old."
	"Oh we don't really, at least not in scientific circles, but a compelling story will outlive such things. I can't stand it personally, but it is a classic." When the lady looks unimpressed, Gemanari titters and takes her gently by the arm to steer her away again. "Don't worry Alinta; I think the Misheep Wah'uden company is running my preferred interpretation on <destination> at the moment. We can see if they have any cheap tickets. Of course my aunt would insist that the hundred and eighty-third version is the only real one, but she always..."
	You lose the conversation as they trail away from you, leaving you to wonder just what was so special about the hundred and eighty-third version of a play about a prehistoric flying Hai found frozen in the ice.
While stopped in the spaceport waiting for refueling, you are surprised by how hard it is to find somewhere to sit and have a meal and a drink. It seems Hai have crammed themselves into every bar or similar venue with a public display screen, arrayed in sashes and mantles and all manner of other paraphernalia which, near as you can tell, look like... team sport merchandise?
	You're not really an expert on what such things look like in Hai society and so when you finally find somewhere to sit, at a bar for lack of any other options, you ask the tired-looking bartender what exactly is going on.
	"Oh this? They're all here for the Musical Entertainment Expo streams. Unfortunately, none of them start drinking until at least one of their teams has announced something of worth," he says with an exasperated eye-roll.
	"Okay. Can I just get some food here?"
	"What's the Musical Entertainment Expo?"
	"Why don't they start drinking yet?"
	"Well you see, the big music labels do a lot of talent scouting all year round. They all have departments solely dedicated to finding and assembling new music groups to be the next big thing. It's tradition to celebrate only after you've committed to the journey with a new band. Every three years the industry holds ME2, which is what you're seeing up there, to debut their next round of bands and to tease any mid-season releases they might have in the works."
	"Your music comes off a production line?"
	"Do you not have musicians trying to make it on their own?"
	"Oh for sure, but mostly just to get picked up by one of these companies."
	The bartender chuckles. "We've been doing pop music for longer than your people have had fire. It's about the experience of being a fan of a group as it rises to fame and stardom. A dedicated Hai can go back and find a song for almost any possible life experience in almost any possible genre. It's the journey, and the personalities, that are what it's all about."
	"How strange."
	"How interesting."
	"Anyway, I gather you were after some food?"
	The bartender tips his head in your direction and takes your order. "No problem, it'll be right up."
	It's a noisy meal.
Stepping into the spaceport you are beset by a riot of color. Every blank surface that's not usually paid advertising space seems to be festooned with dangling holographic projectors, banners, and ribbons. There's even actual paper fliers and posters, apparently taped to whatever surface will bear them. At first you wonder if there's some sort of festival going on, but as you watch a young Hai wearing a hood slaps up another holo projector, creating a cartoonish root vegetable with a sword, which begins hacking at the adjacent hologram, some kind of impressionist concept of a Hai elder made up of iridescent triangles. The young Hai then proceeds to tear down a banner and slap some goo on a massive poster which begins dissolving before a pair of security guards, wearing some very obviously non-standard additions to their uniforms, chase him back out of the spaceport.
	As you watch, the triangular elder being holoprojected seems to flicker and then fizzles out as the battery unit fades, apparently under the assault of the root vegetable which appears to do a victory dance, before proceeding to act out something that makes precisely no sense to you.
	A little further on you encounter two different groups of protesters, assuming that's what they are, weaving in and out of the spaceport's entrances like some kind of conga line. The triangular elder and opposing root vegetable make several reappearances on their placards, some of them holographically animated.
	A different security guard, this one in regular attire, appears at your elbow. "You look a little lost. Don't worry, it's just a meme war. Carry on with your business and don't touch the meme items and no one should bother you over it."
	You thank the security guard for his advice and go about what you were doing as the baffling conflict continues around you.
	As you watch, the triangular elder being holoprojected seems to flicker and then fizzles out as the battery unit fades, apparently under the assault of the root vegetable which appears to do a victory dance. To your surprise, your translator pipes up: "[Victory, Success] for the true and square root that is more [significant, meaningful] than the tripartite [system, tradition] of the elders!"
	A different security guard, this one in regular attire, appears at your elbow. "You look a little lost. Don't worry, it's just a meme war. Carry on with your business and don't touch the meme items, and no one should bother you over it."
	"Sure, will do."
	"Your elders have a tripartite system?"
	The security guard chuckles and says, "Oh you can understand? They don't really, but it's a very old joke from a bygone political campaign that there are only three tenets the elders care about, and they're all the ones that affect us the least."
	When you ask what has triggered this, he says, "Oh, the latest education priorities came out with a four tenet focus, on the same day that an elder accidentally quoted the old campaign. It has been very entertaining."
	"Sounds fun."
As you pass through the spaceport you notice a crowd of trilling Hai clustered in one area.
	(Ignore them and pass by.)
	(Take a look.)
	The crowd appears to be mostly made up of younger Hai, though a few more mature Hai are also there, visibly exhibiting more restraint on their enthusiasm. Reaching the edge of the crowd and peering over the shorter Hai folk, you can see a table set up with two standing banners flanking it and a stack of, at a glance, glossy printed photos.
	The banners depict a rather buff looking Hai, rendered in great detail, with a holographically enhanced animation that makes it appear to be continuously going through the motion of lifting and dropping a generically blurred opponent. The effect is, though, achieved solely through a trick of artificially shifting perspective. To your surprise you realize that this is a signing event for a wrestling star, of all things.
	After only a moment the individual in question emerges from a booth behind the setup and greets their fans, who prove very enthusiastic, before sitting down with some kind of pen for the assembled Hai to line up. It would seem that certain human customs have become popularized among the Hai.
	You can hear the Hai crowd trilling for some distance as you go about your business.
	The banners depict a svelte Hai in the strikingly familiar costume of a fencer, with a holographically enhanced animation that makes it appear to be continuously performing an elegant parry and riposte against an out-of-frame opponent. The effect is, though, achieved solely through a trick of artificially shifting perspective. To your surprise you realize that this is a signing event for a fencing star, of all things.
	The banners depict a pair of Hai, one with a net and one with what looks like a bladed frisbee. It's not at all clear what precisely it is that they do, and when the individuals in question emerge from a booth behind the setup and greet their fans it becomes clear that, if you could even make yourself heard over the trilling, no one is particularly keen to explain it to you.
	The pair remove their helmets and flash dazzling Hai smiles at their fans before sitting down with some kind of pen for the assembled Hai to line up. It would seem that celebrity signings are popular among the Hai.
You stop at a diner for a meal ground-side at the spaceport, but you have not been seated long before you notice there is a group of other human ship captains sequestered in a corner playing, near as you can tell, a game of poker. You note that the group seems to be getting a variety of dark looks from various Hai also dining at the establishment.
	After a short while the barkeep, a middling and slightly overweight Hai, comes over to take your order.
	(Place an order.)
	"Hey, I noticed there are some dark looks around here. Are human captains not welcome?"
	The barkeep looks confused for a second before looking over at the table and shaking his head in understanding. "Oh no, you're perfectly welcome. That group is just breaking the maturity tenets, and some Hai get uncomfortable with adults blatantly acting like children in public."
	"The maturity tenets?"
	"Oh right, I suppose you wouldn't know. There are a number of tenets that Hai are taught growing up, lessons to be internalized to be a responsible and functioning member of society. The second is 'To be honest in dealings,' and the third is 'To gamble only on skill, not chance,' so their game breaks two of them."
	"Some would say poker is more about skill than chance."
	"Surely if it's just a game though, there's no harm in it?"
	"Oh no, I'm afraid the first tenet ensures that it's really not favorable either way. The first is 'To have clear separation of fantasy and reality,' so a game cannot have real consequences or it is reality, not fantasy. So to gamble money on the game is to bring real consequences to a fantasy exercise. This is taboo for an adult.
	"If you interpret the game as being played for the skill, without the wagering, then you clear the first and third tenet, but you have the issue that the principle skills are bluffing and manipulation, which violates the second tenet. Bluffing isn't a skill seen as having virtue, nor is manipulation."
	"Wait, do the Hai not lie or bluff?"
	The barkeep chortles with a strange trill and says, "Oh no, the Hai do lie and bluff. We're actually very good at bluffing, evolutionarily advantageous in the wild and all that. It's just seen as very immature and base. An adult should be able to conduct their lives without resorting to such primitive instincts. We learned that the hard way long ago, back before we holed up in our current borders."
	He looks at you intently before continuing, "You won't hear the tenets brought up very much, but if you look closely you'll see that the first three especially are ingrained in our society very deeply."
	With a shrug he flips open his order pad and pats his belly. "Of course, my gran always said that any of them after the tenth were more guidelines than actual rules, and I certainly have my share of disagreements with thirteen. Now, before I talk your ears off, what'll I get for you?"
	He takes your order diligently and with a smile.
On this particular day, the spaceport is crowded beyond belief by some arcane confluence of chance and logistics. Despite having resolved the bulk of your business the port authorities have informed you that there is no safe departure slot open for at least seven hours (and even that's not a promise). This leaves you alone to fill in your unexpected bit of time in the early morning.
	(Play games on my ship.)
	(Have a look around further afield.)
	Not interested in getting lost in an expansive Hai city, you simply load up an entertainment console to keep you occupied for the next few hours.
	The tendency of the Hai to efficiently pack people into vibrant but densely populated spaces is on full display as you navigate through throngs of Hai who mostly make polite efforts to avoid bumping into you. Colorful banners, flags, murals, and even windows all provide brilliant highlights to the oft-utilitarian architectural styles underlying them. Holoprojected welcome signs even grace the entry-ways of several apartment buildings that you pass, with caveats for door-to-door salespeople.
	One apartment complex's exterior fencing bears a very large sign which your translator informs you says, "No Meme Content Here Please."
	After some time you find what appears to be a cafe, or equivalent, and sit down where you can get a good view of one of the more impressive building complexes around. After a moment a holoprojection built into the table asks you in human standard whether you'd like to order through the table or converse with a member of staff.
	(Order through the table.)
	(Order through a person.)
	A friendly Hai emerges to take your order and politely informs you that there's a 10% surcharge for eating on the terrace. Since that's hardly a meaningful sum to a ship's captain you just nod and try and work out what you're eating. Eventually you settle for a sandwich with acorn butter and vegetable slices that appear to be spiced, or pickled, you're not really sure. It was the staff's top recommended item and didn't come with any follow-up questions about Hai food preferences that you couldn't answer.
	The interface is rather annoying to work with human-sized hands, but eventually you settle for a sandwich with acorn butter and vegetable slices that appear to be spiced, or pickled, you're not really sure. It was the top recommended item and didn't come with any follow-up questions about Hai food preferences that you couldn't answer.
	As you eat your strange, but actually surprisingly tasty lunch, you take note of the large text written above the gateway into the grounds for the building complex opposite you. After a moment your translator box takes note of where you're looking and reads it aloud for you.
	"To know is to lead, to study is to know, to serve is to study, to lead is to serve."
	Naturally, your translator cannot answer questions, so you eat your lunch and leave it be until a staff member emerges to take your plate.
	(Ask them about it.)
	(Keep my thoughts to myself.)
	The staff member takes your plate and wishes you a lovely day.
	As they clear your plate from the table you ask them about the text on the gateway.
	"Oh, that's the city Academy. It's a... uh..." she pauses for a moment and relays something in Hai which your translator immediately converts to, "non-technical university."
	Giving the box a surprised look she smiles and continues in Hai, "If you want to be a manager, a politician, a social worker, or even just a public speaker, you go to the Academy and do courses on leadership and communications. Strictly speaking, it's not necessary to go, but lots of places simply won't accept you into those sorts of roles without some sort of Academy qualification, and they really do provide some great skills. I'm actually going there next year to do a proper human language course.
	"Technically the Academies are all independent, but they all share the same motto. It's an obligatory thing too though, that's what the motto is about. I'm told most humans think it's backwards, but it's not. The Academies keep tabs on their graduates; if you lead with self-interest, serve without studying, study without learning or waste your knowledge without applying it, they've been known to revoke people's qualifications. Attendance is free, so there's an expectation that you don't waste what they spend time teaching you.
	"This one is quite prestigious, but the ones near the spaceports always are." She winks. "Experience through natural exposure is worth more than what money can buy, after all."
	A moment later your comm pad alerts you that you've been assigned a departure window from the spaceport in relatively short order.
	"Well, I must be attending to other customers. You have a great day!" she says, leaving you to go about your business.
Passing down the main thoroughfare of this spaceport you almost ignore a stack of haphazardly piled crates in the median strip. It's not uncommon for recently unloaded crates to temporarily sit in front of different businesses in a port, placed conspicuously out of the way of the flow of foot traffic, but it is the disordered piling that seems out of place.
	No sooner do you slow your step to give it your attention though, than the pile of crates immediately springs to life.
	Music plays and some half dozen robotic caricatures of Hai in exaggerated dress spring forth from various crates and begin to caper about in a series of interactions presumably intended to be comedic, at least judging by how they keep turning away from each other to "look" at the audience and wink. Holoprojected banners and glyphs, presumably advertisement information, flicker through a series of displays as it goes through a cycle before the entire cohort appear to finish up; each onlooker the recipient of some kind of entreaty from at least one robot, before they immediately clamber back into the crates.
	Throughout this a handful of Hai have stopped to watch, and a couple of them let out small chuckles at the conclusion before continuing on their way. Most of them simply roll their eyes and move on though. One child wanders too close as their parents steer around it and a little red holographic warning sign briefly flashes at them. No one seems keen to explain what you just saw, and for the moment the crates remain resolutely closed.
	Now that you think about it, you're not sure they all climbed back into the same boxes they came out of.
	Music plays and some half dozen robotic caricatures of Hai in exaggerated dress spring forth from various crates and begin to caper about in a series of interactions. Your translator struggles to keep up as they run through a rapid-fire string of presumably witty wordplay jokes that don't translate well. The humor appears to be improvisational at first, but the illusion is so good that the realization of the impossibility of robots improvising only catches up with you after the fact. The entire thing is set to a musical score, with beat rests at various points where the animatronic Hai keep turning away from each other to 'look' at the audience and wink. Holoprojected banners and glyphs flicker through a series of displays informing you that this is an advertisement for a fully robotic comedy musical called "The Grandmother's Rules." It claims to be complete with interactive heckling responses and provides a list of dates and venues, all in the far future, where it will be showing.
	At the end each one of the robots strikes a pose and invites a different demographic to come along and "have the time of a decade," with ticket prices starting from 73 credits, before the entire cohort finish up and immediately clamber back into the crates. You're not sure they all climbed back into the same boxes they came out of.
	Throughout this a handful of Hai have stopped to watch, and a couple of them let out small chuckles at the conclusion before continuing on their way. Most of them simply roll their eyes and move on though.
	One middle-aged Hai in the crowd with racoon-like gray around his eyes wears the type of attire typical of their merchant captains. He eyes you curiously and steps over to you. "Well, well, Captain, that's a remarkable box you have there. Didn't know they'd started making live translator devices! Did it keep up alright?"
	"Oh, it's the first of its kind."
	"I think I got the gist of it, though it only reads things out if I look directly at them."
	"Ah yes, I suppose that's a logical feature," he says. "I can only imagine it would be quite unwieldy if it tried to read out every piece of text in its vicinity.
	"The first?" He studies you for a second. "Oh, you're Captain <last>! What a pleasure to meet you."
	He looks you up and down with a wry grin. "Somehow you're shorter than I expected.
	"Well if you do get the chance, I do recommend the performance. I saw it a few months back and it really is quite good. Particularly popular on our worlds with many humans."
	He flicks you a friendly wave. "I must be off. Don't get too close to the displays, they don't like being touched!"
	The Hai sounds very pleased as he ambles off, quietly chortling to himself as he departs.
Meet Teeneep
Fly to <destination> to meet a Hai associated with the investigation you've been doing.
You receive a high priority communication from a Hai woman named Teeneep. The message is brief and cryptic, but you deduce that it refers to the Hai you've rescued from human space in the past. It advises that she needs to talk to you as soon as possible. There is a set of landing coordinates on the uninhabited Hai planet, <planet>.
Symbol Identification
Fly to <destination> and ask Alondo if he can help in some way.
Teeneep is an activist and social leader among the Hai who heads an organization with hundreds of employees and many sponsors. She's used her extensive resources to search for answers about disappearing specialists and suspects a large kidnapping operation.
You follow the landing coordinates to a flat area of hardened dirt near a cave. A Hai Centipede is parked next to you; it draws your attention immediately as it is equipped with some non-standard human outfits. You can see the emission components of a scram drive sticking out the back, and the collection prongs of a Catalytic Ramscoop. The steering is Hai, but the thrusters are human. The ship appears ready to fly rapidly through unfriendly territory without stopping.
	(Walk into the cave.)
	You walk twenty meters into the cave before coming up to a concrete wall that fills up the entirety of the cavity. An open door passes through to an unmanned security post, until it finally leads into a small and roughly designed underground facility. Through some large windows immediately to the left, you can see a room containing a variety of medical machinery, while off to the right there are computers arrayed around a makeshift living area and some sleeping quarters. You notice that some of the people you've rescued are present, but there are many more humans and Hai you haven't met, some armed with Pulse Rifles. Despite all this, your attention is quickly captured by a Hai woman walking towards you.
	"Greetings Captain <last>, my name is Teeneep Goot'r. I'm a social advocate among the Hai, and I'm trying to help your friends with a problem. As you know, they were kidnapped by humans. A few other Hai and human victims are here; they were mostly rescued by other kind merchants in human space, but around half of those here are my staff." As she speaks she directs you to some seats that are just far enough away from the other people in the room to confer at least the illusion of privacy.
	"My organization has been researching the disappearance of Hai ever since humans began disappearing here under similar circumstances. We've discovered some patterns to these abductions, and through those we've been able to reach some of the victims more quickly upon their return, and even rescue some ourselves. But we have noticed something strange among the abductees: those Hai that you rescued, and several others, too, are all experiencing mild cadmium poisoning."
	Teeneep is your best lead so far on Hai arming pirates, and this may be your only option for information. It's time to ask, but perhaps this calls for a careful choice of words.
	"Before we discuss that, can you tell me if the Hai government is arming pirates?"
	"It sounds like something I can help with, but there's something I need from you first."
	She seems quite familiar with the practice of trading information, as she simply says, "What do you need?"
	Teeneep and the other Hai seem shocked. After a surprised exclamation in Hai, she says, "What!?"
	The Hai laugh for a while until they notice your face. "Oh, you're not joking," says Teeneep.
	You explain about pirates having Hai weapons, and about a "trusted source" that told you about an entire warehouse of them.
	"That's... worrying, but the Elders are pacifists to a fault, so I can't imagine them doing it. It is more likely that smugglers took it there, or ordinary pilots sold their used Hai gear. Do you have more evidence?"
	After you describe what Sayari said about Hai pirate deals, Teeneep shakes her head and says, "Sayari would put a stop to any weapon deals. I'm sure it's something innocuous, like cash or basic supplies for their anarchist worlds.
	"If you find solid proof that our government is arming pirates, I can, and will, stop them. There are extreme legal maneuvers civilians can use to force the Elder Council to change their minds.
	"In the meantime, can you help me?"
	"How do you know so much about the disappearances?"
	"Why are you on an uninhabited planet?"
	"Is anyone helping you?"
	"What patterns have you noticed in the disappearances?"
	"Tell me about the cadmium poisoning."
	"How long have the disappearances been happening?"
	"That's enough information. How can I help you?"
	Teeneep looks at you as if you were daft. "Kidnappers have no reason to search an uninhabited planet for potential victims. This gives us a safe place to hide critical people or information. If there is a coordinated kidnapping effort as we suspect, they would track down threats to the operation, like escaped victims or our organization. We have plenty of space here to do our work without precautions that would be necessary on a populated planet."
	A Hai in a medical uniform explains. "The victims each have been exposed to airborne cadmium particles, which must have been circulating through a ship's ventilation. Although the level of exposure is quite low, after being rescued we can detect clearly elevated levels in many who were taken.
	"No known human or Hai ship technology exhausts these particles. There are some Hai medical microbots that leave behind something similar, but not quite the same, and those are microbots are self-contained for disposal. We believe this is coming from another race's technology."
	They share a glance with Teeneep, "We have our suspicions but they're not conclusive yet."
	"We were able to look at the scan of that modified Geocoris you recovered. It has self-repair systems that use technology which could be responsible for something like this, and we suspect they came from the same place."
	"First, you must understand that violent crimes in Hai space are not a rare thing, though they aren't a day-to-day part of life as in human space. Murder, assault, estranged parents kidnapping their children, all of that happens here. Some Hai go on an adventure one day and then fall in a crevasse or get eaten by a beast. Some join the Unfettered but don't tell anyone. Most cases are solved: the person is found dead or alive. Sometimes, though, no person or body is ever found."
	"In recent years, a disproportionate number of Hai and human disappearances are from the intelligentsia: doctors, scientists, engineers, architects. Most were specialists within their field. None were prominent enough for their departure to send shock waves in the community though. Some disappeared from worlds where we'd expect to be able to track them to their general area, but instead, they are simply... gone.
	"We believe someone is kidnapping researchers and specialists and trying to hide it beneath the noise."
	Teeneep answers, "In human space, we don't know, but after collating records in Hai space it seems to have happened in three spates each lasting several years. The earliest date back to only about a decade after we made contact with humans, but the circumstances and types of victims varied over the years. This means that we can't even say for sure if the same people are behind it, but every investigation has ultimately dead-ended with similar difficulties."
	"Nevertheless, from the rate at which the disappearances have happened, possibly as many as five thousand Hai have vanished this way. The number may be less; some of those cases may be undiscovered murders, secret changes of identity, or defections to the Unfettered. We don't have the data to make an estimate for human disappearances."
	Teeneep explains, "The organization I lead has contacts with sympathetic individuals and organizations throughout Hai space. We have enough funding to hire a few hundred full-time employees of our own. Most of them are lawyers, social workers, or administrative employees. A few are investigative journalists or various types of researchers."
	"We've spent the last three years researching this problem, but it helped a lot to meet the people who have been rescued."
	A Hai near Teeneep responds. "Yes... and no. We work with police who investigate the disappearances, and sometimes they find the missing person.
	"Our biggest problem is a lack of help in human space. Local police are overwhelmed with crime in the regions where the kidnapping victims are found. Worse, the kidnappers leave behind virtually no evidence to investigate. Your navies and agencies haven't the time to help us; they're busy cleaning up after the war. The Syndicate has unfinished business they won't talk about.
	"Hai space is more manageable, but our resources are not infinite. The pattern just isn't clear enough yet for the Elders to justify more expenditure. They tell me that if we can prove the disappearances are part of a coordinated kidnapping effort, they'll put all the resources they can spare into stopping the crime. They also say their investigators have been unable to discover anything, but sometimes their responses don't add up. We presume this is because they're blocking our access to classified information."
	Teeneep nods. "We need a skilled and trustworthy pilot with the strength and connections to investigate locations we cannot easily access. Our mutual friend recommended you."
	Teeneep smiles and gestures for you to follow as she walks over to a desk where an elderly Hai is conversing with another, younger, Hai. "Wayou, sorry to interrupt you. Could you please show Captain <last> the symbol?"
	Wayou taps on the controls for a moment and brings up a symbol that looks like an angry cat in a circle. Teeneep asks, "Have you seen this before?"
	"Yes, I have."
	"No, I've never seen it before."
	Wayou nods. "This symbol has been found a number of times where rescued Hai have had cadmium poisoning, but we cannot identify its origin or meaning. This may be key to finding the kidnappers' identity and whereabouts."
	Teeneep smiles and gestures for you to follow as she walks over to a desk where an elderly Hai is in conversation with someone who you realize, to your surprise, is Gipeep. "Captain <last>! It's good to see you again. I still can't thank you enough," he enthuses.
	Teeneep smiles and cuts in to address the older Hai, "Wayou, sorry to interrupt you. Could you please show Captain <last> the symbol?"
	Wayou taps on the controls for a moment and brings up a symbol that looks like an angry cat in a circle. Teeneep asks, "Do you remember this?"
	"Yes, I do."
	"No, I don't remember this symbol."
	She nods. "This symbol was on the key to the crate Gipeep had been locked in. He swiped it and brought it back with you. It has been found a number of times in association with the circumstances where rescued Hai have had some level of cadmium poisoning. We have not been able to identify where it originates from. We must know and seek out who they are and where they are hiding, though I believe our mutual friend will be satisfied with merely the 'who' for now."
	She hands you a data card. "This has as many images of the symbol as we have, and information on where we've found it so far. Perhaps you might find it useful. Think about who you might be able to ask, and follow any leads. If you can find out where this symbol comes from or who uses it, return here, and we will pay you 2,000,000 credits."
	"I'll start right away."
	"No, I don't know if I'm willing to do that."
	Her eyes narrow at you. "Are you sure? Are you absolutely sure you won't help us?"
	You've had a lot of information to absorb in the last few minutes but with a moment of thought you realize that the entire crisis may depend upon you helping to find the source of this.
	"Yes, sorry, I'll start right away."
	"No, that's definitely in too deep for me."
	Teeneep's expression goes blank. Behind you, you hear the sound of a Pulse Rifle firing before everything goes dark.
	As you return to your ship you can't help but think you have no idea where you would find this information, but you are pretty sure you can ask Alondo for an idea of where to start.
Check out the worlds near Allhome, explore the spaceports, and make sure the Hai seem normal.
You make what is beginning to feel like a standard request to land at the secure spaceport and disembark with relevant copies of files on a data stick in hand. It doesn't take long to track down Alondo, though you do have to wait nearly half an hour while he finishes a meeting with a Hai official. When he's done, Alondo waves you into the room and asks you to take a seat. The seat you choose is clearly designed to be comfortable for a Hai, making for a rather strange experience for a human.
	You show Alondo the cat symbol you found. He says, "There's a research institute on Earth that specializes in the history of politics during the early hyperspace travel era. If anyone would recognize this symbol, it's them. I'll pass it on and let you know what they say.
	"In the meantime, could you stop by some of the Hai worlds near the wormhole? They've obviously ramped up security on Allhome, but I'd like to have a pair of friendly eyes check it out. The Hai may be using this as a cover to put their military into a threatening position... not that I think they'd do that, but we've just been through one war. We have concerns, and I may be getting paranoid sitting here in the most Hai place that there is.
	"Plus," he pauses, visibly softening. "It'd be nice to know how they're handling things. It seems to have been quite a shock to them, and civilian populations don't always react well to suddenly heightened security. There's a lot of very high-level stuff going on, and I'd personally feel better if someone could tell me the regular people were handling things alright. No need to do anything special, just have a look around and see how things are going."
Lead from Alondo
Meet Alondo on <planet> to get the lead for your investigation, but only when you have no other business to attend to.
A message from Alondo informs you that he has a tenuous lead he can give you. It also says to look for him only when you're not busy with other business.
Defend <system>
A sizable group of pirates has found their way into Hai space and is terrorizing the system. Help the Hai fight back against them.
The peaceful spaceport is suddenly filled with the harsh sound of sirens. You spot some Hai and a small number of humans running to their ships and speeding quickly into orbit. It appears that the system is under attack, but this is behind the heightened security front in Allhome and the Unfettered Hai never reach this far south... A loud speaker begins blaring throughout the spaceport: "Unfettered humans have entered the system in a large fleet and have begun attacking! Requesting all combat-worthy pilots to assist in the defense of our space. These enemies of harmony are not welcome here."
	You find the phrase "unfettered humans" odd, but guess that they may be referring to pirates who have somehow slipped through. The Hai probably expect you help with your reputation, and this is certainly a significant threat to be attacking here.
	Your heart drops at the phrase "unfettered humans," as the last time you heard that was when the Unfettered Hai used that phrase to refer to the Alphas. If it is really the Alphas attacking the Hai, then it is probably a good idea to help.
	(Join the defense fleet.)
	(Stay here until the fight is over.)
You have declined an essential narrative mission. If you want to complete this story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
Unfettered Humans
Track down the leaders of the pirate gang "Scar's Legion" and "persuade" them to stop attacking Hai space, then return to <destination> to tell the Hai.
The battle has ended, but the spaceport still seems more hectic than usual. Ships are jumping in from the surrounding systems to help any injured and to repair any damage that may have occurred. Despite the heightened security there is an air of concern and worry that seems to be exactly the thing Alondo was worried about.
	After some hours pass and the commotion has died down, a Hai in uniform approaches you. "We have heard from several people here that you are considered a seasoned fighter among your people and learned of your current status assisting our government on other matters. Would you lend your combat prowess to us to resolve this issue?"
	"I'd be glad to help. What can I do?"
	"What issue?"
	"I understand that you just helped to defend this system from human pirates. That is the issue that needs to be resolved.
	"Human attacks on our systems are very rare, but recently we have experienced an increased number of raids. I'm told you recently assisted in dealing with a much more successful one on Allhome. We captured a crew member of this most recent attack who was attempting to flee in an escape pod, and he gave us information that a gang that calls themselves 'Scar's Legion' has discovered our territory and is responsible for some of the recent raids.
	"Unfortunately, he would not tell us where this gang is, or who the leader is, so there is nothing we are able to do about it. Many humans who live peacefully among us told us that you might be capable of assistance, though."
	"I'll see what I can do."
	"You want me to hunt down Scar's Legion to stop them from attacking you?"
	"Sorry, I'm not interested."
	"We understand that these humans are likely misguided. We ask that you resolve this peacefully if possible, but the loss of life from these continued attacks is unacceptable."
	"Sorry, but I'm not interested."
	"Thank you. Please return to <planet> after you have sought to resolve this situation."
You receive a short message from Teeneep. "I heard what happened <last>. This is not one of the groups that was already on our radar, so once you're done I would very much like to hear what you find out."
You've returned to <planet>, but you haven't yet tracked down Scar's Legion. Perhaps you should ask around the spaceport of pirate planets near the wormhole into Hai space for information.
You visit the Navy outpost on <origin> and ask the officers there if they have any information on Scar's Legion. After running a background check on you to make sure you're not up to no good, and sheepishly apologizing once they recognize you, an officer hands you a copy of a folder containing all the information that the Navy has on the gang. "Nothing in here is classified, so you're free to keep it," the officer says.
	You return to your ship and sift through the files. The leader of the gang is named Scar (to no one's surprise), who used to be an important member of another pirate gang before forming his own. The Navy estimates their numbers to be in the low thousands, mostly responsible for petty crime in the Far North and not a cause of too much trouble, but the files all date back to a number of years ago. Clearly something has changed in the time since these files were last updated if Scar's Legion is now powerful enough to even attempt to attack the Hai.
You wander the <origin> spaceport on the lookout for anyone who might have any information on the whereabouts of Scar's Legion. A self-described fixer promises you information in exchange for payment, but after handing her the few credits that she's asking for, she runs off with her gun in her hands to discourage you from following. Perhaps someone on another nearby pirate planet will have actual information for you.
You order a drink from a small rundown bar in the <origin> spaceport and try to make small talk with the bartender to get him open to giving information about Scar's Legion. He seems reluctant at first, but eventually warms up to you. A few other patrons of the bar join in on the conversation. Luckily no one seems mad about you asking about Scar's Legion. One of the patrons makes it clear that Scar's Legion has no friends on this world, or "at least not anymore."
	You leave the bar after an hour or two. Once you return to your ship, you write down all the information you can remember. The gang used to operate exclusively out of the Far North until they crossed one of the larger gangs, causing them to flee the region a few years ago. One of the pirates guessed that they fled for the Core.
	Another person mentioned that the leader of the gang used to always talk about making their own base in an uninhabited system where no one would find it. "He always talked about hollowing out an asteroid to use as a hideout. My guess is he was just always high on the ringworld shavings his gang was dealing."
It doesn't take long for you to find someone who knows something about Scar's Legion. You meet someone who says he'll give you information "free of charge."
	"Scar's Legion have been a thorn in my side for months now. Wrecked my ship a while back, and have been causing me trouble ever since. If you're planning on taking them out, then I'll tell you everything you need to know."
	The pirate tells you that he doesn't know where the base of Scar's Legion is, but he mentions that they spend a lot of time in the uninhabited systems of the Far North. "Nothing out there but cold rocks and gas giants, but if they're spending so much time out there then they must have set up a base of some sort on one of those frozen planets."
Scar's Legion
You've pieced together enough information to find out that the Scar's Legion hideout is in one of four systems in the Far North. Search those systems for the gang's hideout and confront them.
After having visited various pirate worlds asking about Scar's Legion, you believe that you know where their hideout is.
	You know that the leader of Scar's Legion used to talk about wanting a hollowed out asteroid as a base. You also know that Scar's Legion has recently been very active in the uninhabited systems of the Far North. You conclude that the gang's hideout is likely an asteroid located in one of a few systems that are in proximity to the wormhole that leads to the Hai. You mark <waypoints> on your map and get ready to confront them.
Scar's Hideout is a hollowed-out asteroid used by Scar's Legion as their main base of operations. From here they harass anyone making the journey through the uninhabited systems of the Far North. Recently the gang has discovered the wormhole to Hai space, leading them to start causing trouble for more than just unlucky merchants.
The spaceport of Scar's Hideout is a massive hangar dug into the core of the asteroid, accessible only by a single blast door on the ceiling. Judging by the size of the hangar, you'd guess that about a third of the entire asteroid was hollowed out for the spaceport alone.
Having declined the tribute, the leader of Scar's Legion has challenged you to a fight to the death. Defeat the <npc>, then return to <destination>.
You've located the Scar's Hideout, a massive asteroid in orbit around a gas giant. As you fly over the asteroid's surface, you spot an open blast door. They must be inviting you inside. It surprises you that a gang of pirates would be capable of creating such a base, as the materials and time needed to make something like this are immense.
	Upon entering the blast door, it closes behind you, leaving you in complete dark. Suddenly, floodlights flash on all around your ship. The brightness of the lights prevents you from seeing anyone beyond them, but you suspect that there are a number of weapons pointed at your ship right now.
	"Who are you and what do you want?" a voice booms from a loud speaker. You press a button to activate your ship's external speakers.
	"I'm <first> <last>, here to negotiate on behalf of the Hai."
	"I'm <first> <last>, here to take this gang down."
	The voice laughs. "Well too bad, because you're right in the middle of a hornet's nest. Fire, boys!"
	The voice laughs. "Ah, yes. Those squirrels. I take it they've had enough of us plundering their systems. Boys!"
	The floodlights turn off, revealing a large room with what must be hundreds of pirates with guns of various sizes trained on your ship. One wrong move and you're toast. "Please, Captain. Step out of your ship."
	(Comply with the orders.)
	(Attempt to escape.)
	You activate your ship's engines to escape. The floodlights suddenly reactivate.
	Before you can even react, several dozen lasers and streams of bullets come flying out from behind the floodlights. You attempt to pull your ship up and fly straight through the ceiling before your ship is too damaged to move, but then you spot a number of rockets flying straight at your cockpit. You die instantly as the rockets impact the glass in front of you.
	You step out of your ship, and a tall man with a scar across his cheek steps forward from the crowd of pirates. Presumably, it's the eponymous leader of the gang.
	"The Hai ask that you stop attacking their systems."
	"You must be Scar."
	"No. Scar is long dead," the leader says.
	"Oh, so does that make you Scab?"
	The leader grimaces. "I'll cut your tongue out if you don't watch your mouth."
	You take a step back. "The Hai ask that you stop attacking their systems," you say, attempting not to get shanked.
	"Perhaps we will stop," the leader says with a smile. "Under one condition. We'd like a one time shipment of various Hai weapons and technology. The shipment should be as big as possible. I've seen the freighters those aliens have. They're massive. Load two or three up with the goods and we'll consider focusing our attention elsewhere."
	"Okay. I'll meet with the Hai and see what they can provide."
	"I'm afraid that I can't allow that."
	The crowd of pirates respond with a cacophony of jeers and boos. The leader raises his fist in the air, and the crowd falls silent. "Well I'm afraid that just won't do."
	The leader paces back and forth in silence for a moment. "Well if we don't get what we want, then we're just going to need to keep on attacking. Which means that your presence here is pretty useless."
	The leader turns to the crowd. "How about a fight? To the death!" The crowd erupts in cheers. The leader turns back to you. "We fight in this system only. Just you and me. You attempt to run, my men hunt you down. How's that sound?" You attempt to respond, but before you can, the leader pulls his gun and aims it at you. "Run."
	"Excellent!" the pirate says, which is met with cheers from the rest of the pirates in the room. "But make it quick. Wouldn't want to keep us waiting." The blast doors reopen, and you return to your ship to leave immediately.
You've defeated the leader of Scar's Legion. The various spectators to the fight aren't attacking you, but it may only be a matter of time before they decide to turn their guns on you for killing their leader. Better head to <planet> before that happens.
Pirate Tribute
Escort the three Hai freighters carrying Hai weapons and technology to <stopovers>, then escort the freighters back to <destination>.
Upon landing on <origin>, the authorities at the secure spaceport give you <payment> for your assistance in defending their systems and for helping to track down the culprits. They also direct you to an emergency session of the Council of Elders, the now increasingly familiar elected ruling body of the Hai, to tell them about Scar's Legion. Unlike last time there is almost no wait, and the Elders are very direct. The very first one of them to address you says, "Please, tell us what has occurred."
	"They asked that you load three large freighters with various weapons and technology to give to them. Only then will they stop attacking you."
	"A simple request," the elders says. "Little more than what the Unfettered ask of us. We shall load three Geocoris immediately."
	"Who is to say that they will not use our own weapons against us?" another elder chimes in. "This deal could only hurt us."
	"There's no guarantee that they will not attack again, but they promised that they would focus elsewhere."
	"I could return to them and defeat them if you desire."
	"No," says the elder. "We are not interested in condemning these humans to death if all they ask is for technology."
	"I believe a bigger issue here is how this will impact our human friends beyond the wormhole," an elder says. "If these pirates are not attacking us, then who will they be attacking? Will we not simply become weapons dealers for a far off war?"
	"We will inform the Republic Ambassador that we are providing these pirates with our technology for our own sake. They have been capable of combating our technology in the past. I am sure that they will be able to handle it now. Please, <first>, escort the freighters to these pirates so that they may leave us alone."
	"I defeated the leader of Scar's Legion. They shouldn't cause any more trouble for you now."
	One of the elders frowns. "Did you kill their leader in cold blood, or was it self defense?"
	"They asked for a tribute of your weapons and technology, but I refused the offer, so they attacked me."
	"They were not willing to negotiate, and I was forced to defend myself."
	"This is most unfortunate," another elder says. "But I am happy to hear that they will not cause any more loss of life among our people."
	"This is most unfortunate," another elder says. "We would have been willing to provide them the technology they sought if only they had asked nicely in the first place."
	"Better that we eliminate a threat instead of making them stronger through becoming their weapons dealer," the first elder says. "These pirates might have attacked us with our own technology, or, worse still, attacked other humans with them, making us complicit in their slaughter."
	The elders thank you for your assistance in this situation and send you on your way.
You lead the Hai freighters into the blast doors. Despite the massive size of the freighters, they all manage to fit into the asteroid's spaceport with some room to spare, a testament to how much work was put into this base. The pirates of Scar's Legion unload all the Hai technology from the freighters. After the last crate is gone, the freighters quickly launch from the asteroid.
With the freighters safely returned, the Hai thank you for resolving the situation with Scar's Legion and hand you <payment> for your help.
Report to Teeneep
Tell Teeneep about the experience with Scar's Legion.
While resolving the situation with Scar's Legion, you have learned information which should be reported to Alondo, but apparently he is away somewhere and unavailable for a short while. Simply waiting for him at this point may be suspicious, and this is also something Teeneep should be informed of. Perhaps doing so will also help shed some light on what's going on?
Return to Hai-home
Take Teeneep to Hai-home so she can investigate the Elders arming pirates with Hai weapons.
It's probably not advisable to bring so many unnecessary people to a secret location on Darkwaste. You should return when your spare bunks are unoccupied.
Teeneep is on another ship not yet in the system. Take off and wait for the ship to arrive in order to continue.
Teeneep is waiting for you when you return to her base on Darkwaste, though notably the security point at the front is properly manned this time. Perhaps the most recent raid has given them cause for concern. There is a quiet corner of the living area that is unoccupied at the time, and she gestures for you to join her there.
	"So," she says, "please, tell me everything about this recent experience. I must know what happened and what the Elders chose to do."
	You briefly relay the initial events, starting with the raid, then the request for your assistance, the search that you went on, and the eventual discovery of Scar's Legion and their secret base in Danoa where they issued their demands.
	"The Elders were glad they were dealt with, but some would have handed over your technology to appease them."
	"The Elders would have handed them Hai tech, but I could not allow them to use it to terrorize other humans."
	Teeneep's eyebrows shoot up but she restrains herself at the tone of your response. "Indeed, it would not be wise to enable more of your people to suffer their predations. I must be clear on something though; the Elders, you said they'd have given them what they wanted? They said that? They explicitly said they'd have rather dealt arms to human pirates than eliminate a threat?"
	"Yes, they were very focused on a peaceful solution and felt the outcome was unfortunate."
	"Actually, they said they'd have handed it over if they'd only asked nicely."
	Teeneep's eyebrows shoot up in an extremely human-like expression. "They said that? They explicitly said they'd have rather dealt arms to human pirates than eliminate a threat?"
	"Yes, they said it was most unfortunate."
	"Scar's Legion wanted Hai tech. The Elders have handed over your technology to appease them."
	"Scar's Legion wanted Hai tech. Some Elders argued against dealing arms, but they handed them over anyway."
	When you mention the Elders who argued against dealing arms, she nods as if expecting to be satisfied, but the rest of the sentence seems to take a brief moment to register. When you finish, her face flashes through a range of expressions too quickly for you to follow.
	"WHAT!?"
	Teeneep's exclamation is loud enough that every head in the room turns towards you both. "The Elders would prioritize our secrecy over our safety, even when the purpose of the secrecy is to maintain our safety?!"
	"Clearly many of the Elders have become weak and misguided, lost in the miasma of our current difficulties. I must speak to our mutual friend and investigate this. No Hai should be accepting of this subversion of our society's critical values.
	"Scar's Legion wanted Hai tech, but I could not allow them to use it to terrorize other humans."
	"The Elders seemed intent on a peaceful solution, but I do not believe that was truly possible."
	She nods seriously, "Indeed, I would expect that a serious threat capable of slipping the current heightened security and raiding our worlds should not be expected to actually engage in peace, nor trusted to do so. You say the Elders wanted a peaceful solution though, yet it sounds like that did not happen. Did you destroy them?"
	"I defeated their leader."
	"I destroyed their ships."
	"Ah, so bloodied, but perhaps not gone," she muses.
	"Even with the ships you destroyed, there will doubtless be remnants of the group left. We shall have to do some investigation of our own in Danoa." She narrows her eyes at you suddenly. "You did not tell the Elders everything you have told me, did you? What did you tell them?"
	Teeneep seems to have an incredibly perceptive sense of both humans and their use of language to have picked up on this.
	"I told them Scar's Legion was not willing to negotiate, and I was forced to defend myself."
	"I simply did not mention the terms which I found unacceptable, and said I was forced to defend myself."
	She cocks her head and looks at you searchingly for a moment, but doesn't seem to reach any particular conclusion.
	"Yes, well, I suppose you would have to defend yourself in any situation where you didn't give them what they wanted," she says. "In any event, this raises some serious questions about what exactly is going on in those chambers where they make their decisions.
	"You must take me to <planet> immediately. This is something I should investigate personally if I hope to find the truth of things, but I cannot land my own ship there right now because of... bureaucratic reasons. My people here can analyze any sensor logs or other data you have on Scar's Legion. You've found solid proof of the Elders arming pirates, though I doubt this is a lead on the kidnappings. At <planet>, I will catch up with our mutual friend from the secure spaceport. I have sufficient privileges to be there, even if I have no clearance for landing my ship."
	She waves over Wayou towards you. "Please, give Wayou any relevant data files while I pack for departure. I suspect that I have kept you away from <planet> far too long as it is. According to my sources, people there await your return."
	You've barely had time to load your logs onto a data stick and hand them to Wayou before Teeneep is packed and waiting to depart. It would seem your course is set.
Wait for Teeneep and her organization to finish researching past weapons transfers.
Preparation & Investigation
Stop by <planet> on your way to following up the lead from Alondo.
When you advise Alondo of your return he requests you ensure you have at least 8 tonnes of cargo space available.
As soon as you disembark Teeneep slips off through an entirely different security checkpoint. She definitely shows them some sort of ID but you're some distance away by that point. A quick inquiry confirms that Alondo is actually around this time and you send him a message to alert him that you're heading his way.
	As you approach the office where Alondo seems to have been set up for the time being you can hear voices through the open door and you slow to a stop as you realize they sound agitated. "Look, Gruyere, you can't expect me to not organize some things around you when you're off being busy elsewhere. Regardless of whether it was your idea."
	You clearly identify Alondo when he responds, "I wouldn't blame you if you'd at least tried to contact me, or left a message, but it's just typical of how you operate."
	"You were eleven hours out of sync across timezones, it was four in the morning where you were, and you know damn well we've all been more than busy enough to let a message slip here or there. Especially since Terry is now on Mountaintop and I am absent any assistance."
	(Come back after his call is complete.)
	(Listen in on the conversation.)
	"Sam, it's done, it's fine, the things that need to be happening are happening. I don't care, just stop expecting me to thank you for it. I'm not doing this again," says Alondo, exasperated.
	The man you now recognize as Remington pauses for a moment before speaking in a low tone. "Are you going to hold that one against me forever, Gru?"
	"Don't call me Gru."
	A protracted silence ensues.
	You almost expect the silence to be broken by a cough, but instead you hear the sound of a datapad being firmly set to one side. "Anyway, Captain <last> will be here momentarily. Why don't you see if they're on their way?"
	You hear someone, presumably Remington, stand up and you quickly backpedal a few steps before resuming a nonchalant walk towards the office just as Remington steps out to look for you.
	(Make your appearance.)
	You wander off for a few minutes, giving Alondo his privacy. Upon your return, you are face to face with Remington who has stood up to greet you.
	"Ah, <last>, please come in." Remington moves over and clears your path to the nearest seat.
	"It's good to see you back again, <last>," says Alondo, "and just in time for something that I think it's best to ask you to do. Would you like to tell the good Captain what the plan is, Remington?"
	The slightly accentuated formality on 'Remington' is not lost on you, but the Syndicate PR man doesn't react to it as he hands you a datapad displaying a hyperspace relay. "Since this crisis began, the Navy maintained hyperspace relays in Rajak and Hasseleh, linking our communication network to the Hai's through a secure portal. However, while this has allowed us to communicate to anywhere back home, it has some disadvantages. What you see there is the solution.
	"There are fourteen relays between the wormhole and Earth, but that means routing through Elnath or Aldebaran. Lovelace Labs owns those relays, and they get priority access, so our bandwidth is poor there. During a backlog, information will be routed through even more indirect routes, which is holding up Syndicate business by problematic degrees."
	"And you want me to place some new relays?"
	"Can't you just change the priorities of the Lovelace Labs relays?"
	"What if you distribute the traffic over multiple routes?"
	"So why haven't you placed more relays?"
	Remington says, "They're privately-owned relays, so we have no say over them. Lovelace Labs reserves priority status on that bandwidth for their internal purposes. We pay a stiff sum to get the highest priority they are willing to part with, but often they don't leave much for anyone else."
	"And you want me to place some more relays?"
