	Remington says, "That's how the hyperspace relay system already works, but if part of a transmission passes through a long route, the whole transmission is delayed. You get choppy and degraded video, sound problems, and the like. None of the routes are great."
	"As I said before, there are fourteen relays between the wormhole and Earth, which is theoretically the same number as there are to Markab, but for us that means routing through Elnath or Aldebaran. Those two relays are owned and maintained by Lovelace Labs, who ferry an enormous volume of data back and forth between those two systems. This means that communications back to the Syndicate tend to either get held up in a buffer waiting on priority data streams that Lovelace reserves for itself, or it gets routed for eighteen links through Sirius, or seventeen through Sol itself. Both of these systems have strained infrastructure with high throughput latencies as it is, even for priority communications. So while Xilin has the highest priority access and the shortest distance and Alondo here has all his comms routing a whole different way entirely, the Syndicate is getting many of our comms held up to sometimes problematic degrees."
	Remington makes an unimpressed face. "We have. They keep getting blown up by marauders."
	"I thought even pirates wouldn't blow up relays?"
	"Why would they be doing that, don't they use them too?"
	Remington nods. "Yes, well, this end of space has never had relays since nobody needed them. For a long time the marauders here have been using the communications darkness out this way to do their business with impunity. The sole advantage of these relays is that ships out this way can call for help when they couldn't before. So the relays the Syndicate have been putting up have been getting destroyed, along with several of our security ships.
	"This one that you see in front of you is different, though." He makes eye contact with Alondo and very deliberately emphases the word as he continues, "WE have been working with the Hai to make relays that look human-made, but utilize advanced Hai technology to baffle scanners attempting to find them. They'll form communication links the marauders can't destroy."
	He looks at you, "But of course, since they have Hai tech in them, they need to be delivered by a trustworthy human who's not likely to get blown up by a marauder."
	"I can deploy the relays for you."
	"Not sure I want to do this."
	Alondo looks at you and says, "We need you to do this. It'll be very helpful."
	The emphasis he places on the words 'you' and 'helpful' suddenly give you the sense that this might be coordinated specifically for your benefit. Realizing this, you nod and accept it, on his account.
	"Excellent," says Remington, standing up and flicking over the pickup details to your pad. "Check in with Terry on your way; she may have updated scouting information. Now I have another meeting to get to momentarily, but thank you, Captain. It's been a pleasure seeing you again."
	He gives a meaningful look to Alondo on his way out, but exactly what it means is not clear to you. Alondo's posture relaxes as he gets up and quietly closes the door.
	"Now," says Alondo, setting aside his pad. "We have some other business. I have a lead on this symbol you wanted investigating. I still wish you'd tell me why you're looking for it, but for now, I'll accept that it's important." He fishes around in a small satchel bag that usually carries his pad and pulls out an actual piece of physical paper. The text on it reads, 'Adjunct Research Library, Navy Intelligence Observatory, Moscow. Room number: 3017A19'.
	"Fortunately, I found someone for you to speak to and a cover for being there in the first place. Xilin needs a trusted aide to stay on top of things here, especially as Mountaintop progresses. So far he's found the staff provided there to be... lacking. I get the sense from him that he's expecting things to get more complicated, though he hasn't said in so many words. So, you get to go to Earth to pick up his assistant, and while you're there, you can speak to a certain Ms. Giti Gilani. She's an expert in the history of space flight and related archaic topics. Meanwhile the aide you'll pick up is a young man called Batu Cegeen. You'll have to land at the Ulaanbaatar spaceport for him, and travel locally for your business with Ms. Gilani."
	"Do I need to speak to Xilin myself?"
	Alondo shakes his head. "No, I have already told him about the plan to have you drop off some relays, and explained that it's just a minor detour to ask you to go on a bit further. It saves them having to try and arrange suitably secure transport all the way from Earth to <origin> and then back to <planet>. This way the worst he'll have to deal with is the one trip from here back to wormhole later, which is easy enough."
	Alondo leans forward on his desk. "And <last>, I don't know what's going on, but if you won't even tell me, it must be dangerous. Please, be careful."
	"I will."
Deploy relays in <waypoints>, and pick up Batu Cegeen on <planet>.
Turns out Terry is not the secretary of Samuel Remington, but has been relegated to that position by a change in management. She was in fact the Chief Operations Officer, or COO; one of the most important people in the Syndicate before the war ended. She is now managing the organizational side of the movie production very competently.
An entrepreneur with a sharp mind, he was drawn into the cover story in the instrumental role of providing the funding, at least officially, for the movie production. It was not clear if he expected to profit from it, or simply saw it as an incomparable experience.
Stopping in to <origin>, it takes practically no time to find Terry. She seems to be in motion at almost all times, trailed by a plethora of people constantly bringing things to her attention and then scurrying away once they've received whatever answer they were seeking. Between seeing her and crossing the eighty or so meters to come face to face, you see her put her thumbprint to at least three separate datapads; presumably approvals of some sort.
	"Ah, <last>. Excellent," she says as you arrive. "Come with me."
	The main concourse of this station is set up for a movie production, littered with small meeting rooms squeezed between significant operations. They'd probably be storage cupboards on a normal station, but everything and everyone on this station seems to be occupied. A diligent attendant blocks the door as she closes it behind you, and you see the queue of people scatter through the door's window. No doubt they'd return as soon as Terry was available again.
	"David Cohen is an eccentric character, but things are progressing rapidly and smoothly so far. The station is working, and the cover is gaining traction. From what I hear they're even making the movie now. They've almost made enough progress that people could believe the movie has been in production long enough to justify all this."
	"You certainly seem busy."
	"Looks like it's thanks to you."
	She momentarily adopts a self-satisfied smile.
	"Yes, well, this poses a few issues of its own with the increased demand on the relay bandwidth from here, but I wouldn't have my regular job if something like this was too much to stay on top of."
	"Your regular job?"
	"Your job as a secretary?"
	She rolls her eyes and shakes her head with a little huff. "It's ridiculous that Sam tried to make me look like some common witless secretary. No, I mean the job I had right before the end of the war, and the job I still seem to be doing seventy percent of even while I'm here."
	"Yes, my regular job. Specifically the one I had before the end of the war, and before this farce they have me doing now, while my successor tries and fails to be half as competent."
	She pushes a button her datapad's case and it ejects a business card which she hands to you. You see on the card, "Chief Operations Officer".
	"Of course," she says, taking the card back and neatly pushing into the case, "I'm not allowed to disseminate those cards at the moment. At least not until this is over, when I can take back my position after the fool in my place has made a mess of things."
	She seems absolutely sure that that's exactly how things are going to turn out.
	"Now, speaking of my second job, you have relays on your ship that will make that easier, yes?"
	"Yes, I have the relays."
	"Wonderful, the latency has been killing me lately. These are the coordinates for deployment." She flicks the relevant data files from her pad to you. "Make sure those are loaded into the relays. Deploy them roughly in the right place, and they'll move to their own positions."
	She checks something on her pad and then stands up. "Now, come with me. I need to introduce you to someone in case you need each other and I'm busy."
	With astonishing speed she strides down the concourse, clearing a path between all manner of employees and visitors. This clear path perhaps being the only reason you are able to keep up. She calls out to a human dressed in a business suit who turns with evident surprise, sees you both, and approaches.
	"Captain <last>, one of the many heroes of humanity! I noticed you right away when I laid my eyes upon you. I'd like to personally thank you for what you've done."
	"Glad to get some recognition for all the hard work I've done."
	"Don't mention it. I just did what I could to help."
	"Can I help you, sir?"
	"I'm the one who should be using formal titles to address you, so please, Captain, don't call me sir."
	"A personality as big as yourself should be receiving praise and recognition wherever you go! People must really have no respect these days."
	"No need to downplay yourself, Captain! You've done God's work in saving humanity from that alien scourge."
	Terry looks between you. "Captain <last> is doing a lot to help us out, so please make yourselves acquainted. Don't be too long though, the Captain has a job to do." With that, she gives the both of you a parting nod and strides back into the chaos. Almost immediately a swarm of people with datapads materialize from nowhere and pursue her.
	The man grins and shakes his head as she departs. "Remarkable woman. Anyway, the name's David Joseph Turner, venture capitalist, entrepreneur, and famous Paradise Worlds businessman." Turner grabs a business card from his pocket and hands it to you. It contains his contact information, an address on Martini, and boasts in golden letters his net worth of more than three billion credits.
	"You may not have heard of me, but I've sure as hell heard of you." Turner turns around and waves his arm across the crowd of people working on the station concourse. "To be involved in funding and producing this movie, though, what an adventure. You know I've paid for movies to be made, or at least invested in them, but I've never actually been there while it was happening. Quite remarkable."
	"Of course, there are the communication latency issues, and the dreadful matter of the black spot that is the route through Cardax. We need proper coverage of that area if we're going to provide security to the tourists who seem intent on coming here. Though I hear that you might be working on that as we speak, am I right?"
	"Yes, I'll fix it."
	"It's on my way."
	Turner smiles with a little twinkle in his eye.
	"Of course, the famous Captain <last> always has a finger on the pulse. Being right where they need to be. Good thing we got the advertising out there up in time, hey?" He taps his nose and gives a shockingly conspicuous wink.
	"Anyway, give me your details too just in case I need them, and I'll let you get to your business. Good luck out there." He checks your details into his pad and gives you a firm handshake before hurrying off towards people moving a very large prop. 'No, no, they said they wanted that on stage five! Stage five!'.
	Time to drop off those relays and head to <planet>.
You fly to the coordinates given to deploy the relay and eject it from an airlock, making sure that there are no ships in range to see it happen. The relay gives you a confirmation ping when it's successfully activated.
To finish this mission, you must visit all four systems, and return the deployment hardware to <planet>. It may be in an escort that hasn't arrived.
Return to <destination> with Batu Cegeen and your new information.
Batu is on another ship not yet in the system. Take off and wait for the ship to arrive in order to continue.
Giti is a research librarian on Earth that specializes in the history of space flight and related archaic topics.
A clandestine organization that existed within the Syndicate that was founded upon anarcho-syndicalist ideals. Its ranks eventually became bloated by enthusiastic recruits from Freedom that were keen to get rich, and were more anarchist than anarcho-syndicalist. The resulting tensions undermined the group, and the Syndicate Internal Affairs scoured them from the organization.
An internal police force within the Syndicate that enforces the Syndicate's laws.
You land at Ulaanbaatar's spaceport and receive a message that Batu has to finalize some arrangements and will arrive in the evening. That leaves plenty of time for you to see to your other business about the symbol.
	At an information desk, you inquire about the route to Moscow and are given two options. You can take a very expensive private taxi service, which you could bill to Alondo, or you can take the long route and see the sights. Either way, you'll have plenty of time before Batu arrives.
	The attendant at the information desk asks you, "Would you like to contact the direct taxi service, or take the slow route and see the sights?"
	"I'm in a hurry. I should take the direct route."
	"The slow route sounds more scenic. I'll try that."
	Moscow is thousands of kilometers away, so you travel most of the route on shuttlecraft. It seems some new pilots took an option you never considered: planet-side travel in an exclusive contract with local transit authorities who pay half the mortgage. Certainly a safe career, but it would be too dull to be restrained to just one planet.
	You fly past mountain ranges and lakes, and over bare tundras and steppes. The gray cities of Earth stand out when you pass them; packed in their ancient locations and their new ones. Even from far above, the cities' vast megabuildings are an imposing sight. There's still some farmland on this route, even now that farming has largely moved off-world, but not enough for the twenty billion people living on Earth.
	After three shuttle trips, you land in the city of Nizhny and board a two-story train that hovers in a tunnel of superconducting magnets. Such a complex system would be unprofitable anywhere else in human space, but the population is so high here that these village-sized trains run non-stop at full capacity. You must look lost as you disembark in the vast station in Moscow, and a passerby asks if you need directions.
	"How do I get to the surface?"
	"I'm looking for this address."
	You follow his directions and, while strolling through Moscow to your destination, pass many historic sites. An unmistakable sight catches your eye: the Museum of Cosmonautics, one of the largest museums of spaceflight on Earth. It is most famous for having the first hyperspace-capable human-made ship on display, painstakingly preserved for hundreds of years. The museum extends into the three megabuildings surrounding it, containing all manner of spaceflight firsts.
	At length you arrive at the building you seek and pass through its main doors into a room as big as a football field, filled with in-building trains, moving walkways, and hover-platform elevators. It's amazing how large Earth's megabuildings have become; some planets have smaller populations than the building you are standing in right now, and it is but one of hundreds you've seen on your short journey.
	You find an information desk, and inquire about the meaning of 'room number: 3017A19' - the 301st floor, section 7A, room 19 - and get directions. They point you to what looks like a cross between a train and an elevator. A robotic voice asks your destination.
	"Please take me to the 301st floor, section 7A, room 19."
	"Room 3017A19, please."
	Reaching the room in question you knock on the door which has a nameplate that reads, 'Giti Gilani' with the title 'Research Librarian' in small print underneath. You are swiftly greeted by a short, energetic looking lady. She looks you up and down and nods. "Captain <last>, you're not as tall as I thought you'd be in person. Please, please come in."
	You're ushered into a luxury taxi, complete with a built-in bar and the latest forms of entertainment. The taxi enters a ballistic trajectory into space and back down into the atmosphere, reaching your destination in under an hour. It links its aft exit port to a hover vehicle access port about half the way up the side of the building. The well-dressed driver leads you into the building and, after briefly consulting a directory, escorts you to your destination.
	"Floor 301, section 7A, room 19, sir," he says. "This is the office of research librarian Giti Giliani."
	"Thank you for the smooth trip."
	The friendly taxi driver bows slightly and returns to his taxi. As he leaves, you knock on the door.
	The door opens and you are swiftly greeted by a short, energetic looking lady. She looks you up and down and nods. "Captain <last>, you're not as tall as I thought you'd be in person. Please, please come in."
	Clearly someone took the liberty of informing Giti of at least the basic information about what was being searched for, and that it was you doing so. Once the door is shut and locked, though, it becomes clear she is quite excited about this search. She gestures to a seat near her work desk and briefly tidies some of the more egregiously scattered research items. "Would you like a drink? Tea, coffee, vodka? I already have some notes on the cat symbol but I need to discuss some things with you. Do you have any more images?"
	"Tea please."
	"Coffee would be good."
	"Uh, vodka?"
	"I'm fine thanks."
	"I do have some other pictures here with me."
	She acknowledges your selection and then pours herself a coffee from the pot with a quarter shot of vodka added in. "Gives it some kick," she says with a wink. "And did you have other pictures?"
	When you indicate that you do she beams and flounces into her seat with a flourish.
	"Oh excellent," she says, quickly pouring herself a coffee from the pot and practically skipping over to take her seat.
	"Well, you'll probably be disappointed with what I have so far," she begins, "but I'll start with what I have found and then you can show me any new pictures you have and we can see what I can do." She waits for you to indicate your understanding before she continues.
	"This cat symbol was used a century ago by a clandestine organization called 'Base Principles' that worked within the Syndicate."
	"Who were 'Base Principles?'"
	"Wait. What were they doing in the Syndicate?"
	She explains, "Base Principles were anarcho-syndicalists infiltrating the Syndicate from within, gaining clout through research findings gleaned from alien equipment, but nobody knows where they got it. The organization was eventually torn in two by regular anarchists and other unsavory characters looking to profit off the backdoor access to the Syndicate; this group kidnapped researchers from other institutes to expand their capabilities.
	"These others didn't cover their tracks well enough; the trail led back to the syndicalists that started it all in the first place, and Syndicate Internal Affairs quickly put a stop to the organization with extreme prejudice. Most of the anarchist leaders were killed in battle or executed after capture, but the internal players simply... disappeared.
	"Officially, the Syndicate maintains that they wiped Base Principles out to the last individual, but evidence never proved it had been conclusively terminated."
	"That's it?"
	"Was there anything else?"
	"Yes. That was over a century ago, but only a few decades back the same symbol came up again in conjunction with a smuggling ring that was kidnapping gifted children. It seems that a minor error resulted in a crate being misplaced by the smugglers, complete with a child inside and the symbol surreptitiously stamped on the corner plate. The ship the crate was meant to be on self-destructed when it was caught, and any potential affiliates went to ground. A handful of ships and individuals were identified retrospectively to have been involved, but none of them were ever seen again. The kidnappings stopped."
	She frowns at you. "No. Somewhat more recently, only a few decades back in fact, the same symbol came up again in conjunction with a smuggling ring that was kidnapping gifted children. It seems that a minor error resulted in a crate being misplaced by the smugglers, complete with a child inside and the symbol surreptitiously stamped on the corner plate. The ship the crate was meant to be on self-destructed when it was caught, and any potential affiliates went to ground. A handful of ships and individuals were identified retrospectively to have been involved, but none of them were ever seen again. The kidnappings stopped."
	She waves a hand dismissively at her screen. "Of course, I only received the one image to refer to, and the older records are not necessarily very good quality or captured with future research librarians in mind. So, please, show me what else you have."
	"I have some pictures to show you."
	"Can you glean more from this?"
	You pull out your datapad and hand it to her with the folder of relevant pictures, some carefully redacted of Hai paraphernalia, for her to look at. As she begins flicking through them she makes some comments.
	"You know, there's quite a lot more of these than I expected. All quite recent too, judging by the file quality and that crate design. They are exactly the same as the original. Someone clearly has made a deliberate decision to reuse the exact symbol, with no re-imagining or stylistic alterations whatsoever. If you ask me, that sounds like a group that has set itself to having the same goals, which means the Syndicate would probably be very interested in this. Though I suppose you'd have the connections there if... Oh!" She pauses. "Now this is interesting."
	She turns the datapad to you and shows you what looks like an amulet or maybe a jewelry charm. The scale in the image isn't very clear. "Do you see this patterning around the outside of the symbol on this? I'm quite sure nearly everyone in the galaxy would simply pass that off as decorative, but it's not." She pauses for a moment, perhaps expecting a response.
	(Politely wait for her to finish.)
	"I have a hunch you're going to tell me it's a form of writing."
	She looks impressed and says, "Very good! I underestimated you, Captain <last>.
	After a couple seconds, Giti looks slightly disappointed but makes no comment on the matter.
	"This is an archaic written shorthand notation used for ship's logs, back when they were considering data storage requirements for the thousands of people on board the slow ships they sent to Alpha Centauri. You'd be amazed how much space just logs and diaries can take up when the journey takes as long as theirs did." She smiles at you, "As it happens I wrote my Ph.D. thesis about that notation! Now I finally need that information for something other than getting a degree!"
	She frowns at it for a long moment, "There's quite a lot of notation here actually and... well, gosh, it's been twenty-eight years since I did that thesis. I can't just translate this on the fly. It'll take me some time to dig up my resources and work on it. Am I allowed to keep these pictures?"
	"Absolutely, I'll send you the folder."
	"Yes, and I can also give you some other data too."
	"Excellent, look, leave it with me and give me your contact info. I'll see if I can work out whether there's anything meaningful there and let you know."
	You thank Giti for her time and depart to make the return trip to the Ulaanbaatar spaceport. You message ahead once you're on your way and arrive to find Batu waiting for you ready to depart.
	For now it's back to Hai-home, and hope that Giti turns up something useful. At this point, though, maybe this whole thing is just a red herring?
Demanding Satisfaction
Take Teeneep to <destination> to treat with the Unfettered.
Teeneep is on another ship not yet in the system, take off and wait for the ship to arrive in order to continue.
As you return, you give Batu directions to find Xilin and then arrange evening meetings with the other diplomats. To pass the time, you search for Teeneep and Sayari, hoping to swap information with the two. You find yourself at Sayari's office, only to be met by the sight of Teeneep and Sayari arguing. Teeneep is shouting angrily at Sayari, who is trying to calm her. Their argument is so intense that they don't hear you approaching.
	"Am I interrupting something, Sayari?"
	"Teeneep, stop acting like a child!"
	"What kinds of deals are the Elders making with pirates?"
	"Now that we know the situation, how do we fix it?"
	"Are the two of you usually this argumentative?"
	"Did all of the deals involve arming pirates?"
	"Does Hai media not deal with this sort of thing?"
	"We've discussed enough. Let's get to work."
	It is difficult to hear precisely without making yourself known, so you struggle to understand. At first, Teeneep is annoyed, maybe saying words like: pirate, victim, orchestra, and betrayal. Sayari's responses revolve around: necessity, an angry child, guilt, and eggs. Something sets off Teeneep, and she keeps screaming "tweezers." Sayari puts a paw gently on Teeneep's shoulder and says in a soothing maternal tone, "green the moon blue." At this point, it becomes clear that the conversation is entirely in Hai, which you don't speak, and you have no idea what the two women are actually discussing.
	As the pair turn towards you, Teeneep looks mortified. "Captain <last>, I... I'm sorry you had to see me like this. I just... Sayari?"
	"Welcome back, Captain <last>. I must apologize for my friend's state. She's just discovered some rather unfortunate information."
	Realizing that you've arrived, Sayari tilts her head slightly to one side to indicate she's speaking to you, while not taking her eyes off Teeneep. "Welcome back, Captain <last>. I must apologize for my friend's state. She's just discovered some rather unfortunate information."
	"Unfortunate!" Teeneep very nearly shrieks the word. "They've been doing this for decades! Decades, Sayari! Tracking down and ultimately paying off pirates with our technology to leave us alone, even when they've hurt, killed, kidnapped, and enslaved our people!
	"You knew! This whole time, for a half century, you knew, and you did nothing!"
	Teeneep closes her eyes and breathes deeply until she has calmed herself down. It looks like this is a technique she's practiced many times.
	The three of you sit down once Teeneep looks ready to talk.
	Sayari looks at you apologetically. "She's always been quite a spark, but we usually get along very well."
	Teeneep adds, "Sayari has been my mentor since I was a head shorter than her. I consider her my closest and most trusted friend."
	Sayari says, "The Elders have been making deals with your pirates for a long time, in return for secrecy or ceasing mischief. We give them credits, supplies for their colonies, or weapons. I'm not privy to the details, but I've known for quite a while."
	An enraged Teeneep counters. "They give them our weapons so that they can more efficiently go and enslave other people, rather than just dealing with them properly the way they should have! One hundred and seventy three reports, Sayari. That's how many times they've done this, or something like it, and those are just the ones that came up in the sweep. There's no telling how many others might be filed improperly, missing key words, or just outside of my search range.
	"I thought you were a model of morality, Sayari. Now I know you're no better than they are. No better than... than..."
	Sayari finishes Teeneep's thought. "No better than you? The curse of power is to sacrifice your morals for protection of people under your care. I think you know that well, Teeneep. Perhaps better than I?" Teeneep looks briefly ashamed when Sayari says that.
	Teeneep says, "In the cases I found, a third of the deals included hostile technology: shield regenerators, guns, turrets, or anti-missile systems. Most of the deals included something else too, like money, non-hostile technology, or supplies for anarchist worlds. For the past five years, though, nearly every deal involved exchanging Hai weaponry." She looks irate at Sayari for a second.
	Sayari explains. "The grievance is against the Elders. There's a process to seek redress of grievances with the Elders. Teeneep needs to at least attempt to follow that process, and if she does not go through with normal resolution channels, she will be censured from public life. She must confront the Elders directly."
	Teeneep makes the effort to give a final, defiant snarl of disgust. "She's right," she grates out. "I hate it, but she's right. Especially because several of those reports indicate that the Navy knew of Hai on some ships and stood by while they were taken away. Which makes it your business, too."
	Thinking back to your meeting with Katya, you realize this is probably a step closer to a "hostile diplomatic incident."
	Sayari gives you a quizzical look. "Of course they do, though Tee has access to more efficient options. That's not the point, though."
	Sayari nods at you and looks toward Teeneep. "Look, the Elders are pretty much permanently on call at the moment. None of them are leaving <origin>, and they're in session as we speak. Let me put a priority audience request into the system, and you can probably see them this afternoon. In the meantime, why don't I order some food here? You can use my spare desk over there to prepare what you need to say."
	Teeneep takes a deep breath and accepts the plan with sudden and surprising grace. She gathers her pads, then sets up where indicated. "Alright, just get me some comfort food while I work on this."
	Sayari asks you, "Her favorite foods are acorn curry and nutmeg pie. Which should we order?"
	"Acorn curry sounds... good?"
	"I'd love some nutmeg pie."
	The pie tastes and feels like a meaty shepherd's pie, even though it's all nuts and vegetables. The subtle taste of nutmeg really brings it all together, accenting the acorns quite well.
	You eat the most delicious curry you've ever tasted, with a perfect combination of acorns and the best Indian spices. It's amazing what Hai can do with nuts; no wonder Teeneep considers this a comfort food.
	After a short hour of frantic work, Teeneep leads you to a room within the government complex. Sayari explains, "This is a Special Adjunctive Triad: three Elders with diverse views, specialized knowledge, and the power to take limited immediate actions."
	"What does that mean?"
	"Thank you, Sayari."
	"Our governmental structure is directed towards stability, but sometimes there's a problem that merits rapid action. When needed, the Council will nominate a group of Elders, or even just one, to take actions the full Council would otherwise spend weeks deliberating upon. Their power is limited, and is defined when they're nominated, but their dictate is immediate. If necessity pushes beyond their preset limits, they can make a recommendation with a fast track to a full Council discussion. In trying times like these, they may get a meeting by tomorrow."
	The three Hai Elders are sat behind a table, and the Elder in the center gestures for all of you to sit down in those strange Hai chairs. After a small, calm exchange in Hai between Sayari and the central Elder, he motions for you to speak.
	Instead, Teeneep begins. "Respected Elders, I have extensive evidence of a sustained kidnapping campaign in Hai space, facilitated by pirates you've been arm-"
	"Enough," says an Elder, raising his hand. "We know about your views, the 'five thousand missing Hai,' and your organization's media connections. You're already risking larger issues with your current actions. We are here to speak to your witness. Captain <last>," he says, turning to you, "tell us your views on these matters."
	You think carefully of Katya's warning as you prepare to respond.
	"Why have you been making deals with pirates?"
	"Your secrecy is rapidly degrading, and pirate activity is on the rise despite these deals. Are you sure they're worth sacrificing your morals?"
	"A trusted source has warned me of a hostile diplomatic incident that may happen if the Republic finds out you're arming pirates."
	The left Elder says, "Secrecy, mostly, to prevent a refugee crisis if the Hai become common knowledge. The bulk of the resources go to a few large pirate groups that control the anarchist worlds. We fund the development and protection of their planets, in return for them ensuring the wrong people don't find us."
	Another Elder adds, "Most of the deals are much smaller, though: when a pirate gang causes mischief, we pay them to stop. Hostages, theft, raids, and the like. Usually, the same gang never bothers us again." Teeneep perks up at the word "hostages," but doesn't speak.
	The middle Elder counters, "We cannot be certain that the pirate activity will continue. With the proper trades, we may be able to return to the status quo."
	"That is a best-case scenario," says the right Elder, "but if matters continue to worsen, we'll change our approach." The other two nod in agreement.
	The Elder on the right disagrees. "At this point, the Republic is too weakened to be a threat. I'm confident they will see reason, for now."
	Fortunately, the middle Elder contradicts him. "We don't want to risk larger problems with humanity. If the situation continues to worsen, then we'll change our approach." The other two find that argument convincing and nod.
	An Elder concludes the meeting. "The Elder Council asked us to take charge of the pirate situation, and we now have a plan of action on the pirate deals. However, I've heard enough of this 'kidnapping' conspiracy theory. Our meeting is adjourned." Teeneep's fury is palpable, but she remains silent as the three exit.
	"That could have gone better."
	"It sounds like we've made some progress!"
	As you walk back to the diplomatic quarter, Sayari begins. "They didn't do anything, but at least they agreed to solve the problems when they become disasters."
	Teeneep objects, "We can't wait for a disaster before solving this!"
	Sayari agrees. "You're right, of course, in this matter. The Elders have ever struggled with change. They're not wise for this, but they were not elected to be so. They were elected to continue the long march of incremental development. Besides, you know far better than most exactly what challenges they've contended with these past couple of decades. More of them have died or retired than been unelected."
	"What can we do to solve this, Sayari?"
	"Teeneep, I think we need quick action. You mentioned something back in the cave."
	The three of you head back to the diplomatic quarter and where Xilin and Batu lead you to a conference room. They consult Sayari, and occasionally Teeneep, in a long discussion about the Navy knowing of the pirate troubles and willfully not intervening. Xilin sympathizes and suggests the Hai ask the Navy to rescue those captured.
	Batu cuts in. "I'm sorry, deputy minister, I have not had time to fully brief you. The Navy already considered this and said 'not under any circumstances' will they 'clean up the Hai's mess'." In the slightly stunned pause following his words he draws breath and adds somewhat less intensely, "It's, uh, possible that five thousand missing civilians was not one of the things they considered when they said that."
	Xilin frowns. "We should definitely present that case. They'll have to do another whole round of private briefings, and then no doubt a large debate. Even if we started today, Parliament won't be able to act for months. I'll kick things off, but you'll have to be patient."
	When Teeneep makes a noise as if to speak, Sayari silences her with a gentle touch and thanks Xilin in the formal capacity. He briefly thanks you for delivering Batu safely and then the two excuse themselves to see if they can get a hold of someone before their day ended.
	"Should we wait for Parliament to respond?"
	"Do you have any other ideas?"
	Teeneep sighs in exasperation. "We can't wait for your parliament to spend months deliberating. Sayari, you have a crisis of your own here, and I cannot accept a resolution without an avenue to rescue our people and put a stop to this for good. I would hope you cannot either..."
	Teeneep says with certainty, "I must go to the Unfettered. If they can be swayed, then the Elders may be pressured into acting."
	"Captain <last>," she says, giving you a calculating look. "I would very much appreciate it if you'd be so kind as to take me."
	"Aren't those Hai pirates? No, that sounds unwise."
	"Of course, Teeneep. Let's go."
	"Teeneep, no! You cannot just commandeer the Captain to act as your chauffeur wherever you want to go," says Sayari. "<last> has an important role here in this crisis."
	"And what would you have them do next then?" When Sayari seems at a loss to respond, Teeneep continues. "Exactly. Your crisis is mostly resolved behind closed doors, but this crisis requires transportation. The thing you seem to be missing is that they're the same crisis, Sayari. They can't be resolved separately."
	Sayari slumps back in her chair with a huff, for a moment looking as old as she says she is. Teeneep waits patiently while her friend spends a good thirty seconds seriously thinking about something. "She is right, <last>," says Sayari eventually. "This is worth trying. Please take her to the Unfettered if that is what she wishes; their government is on <destination>, but please, be careful."
	As you both get up to leave Teeneep walks over and places a hand gently on the old diplomat's shoulder. "They call themselves the True Hai, maybe it's time they demonstrated it."
Fly to <destination> and deliver Teeneep and her ultimatum to the Elders.
Teeneep makes a request on your approach and then goes to prepare. You are subsequently directed to a restricted landing zone near their government complex. When she reappears Teeneep has prepared to meet the Unfettered in a somewhat surprising manner; she's wearing what looks like a fencing outfit. There are two swords on her back and several balanced knives on her belt. She's wearing a headband with a medallion on it that looks like an athletic medal.
	She pays you for the trip and explains, "These blades are not ceremonial. Bring your gun with you, but hand it to them when we reach the chambers, or the Unfettered may think you're an assassin. Trust me, we'll be fine.
	"Let's go," she says.
	"What's your plan?"
	(Follow her.)
	"To Unfettered Hai leadership, this meeting is all a political ploy. They know it's in their best interest to help us. It will raise public opinion towards them among the "Fettered" and likely lure more recruits to their side. But before they agree, I have to prove myself in front of their troops. If I don't, the public's perception will be that the Unfettered leaders helped a weak coward. Fortunately, dangerous sports have a tendency to open doors for you in Hai society. They're an essential hobby for anyone who hopes to have influence, and I have kept up with mine reasonably well. It's been a couple decades since I won anything, but I was regional champion in fencing a number of times when I was really into it."
	Teeneep goes to disembark, pauses, then turns back to you. "Actually, before we leave the ship, there was something I wanted to make sure I explained before we meet the Unfettered leadership: I'm carrying real weapons for a reason. This meeting will probably seem violent, and that will probably make you think the Unfettered are a barbaric people. They're not; they 'play up' their violent nature. It's a hard concept to explain - we have Hai words for this that don't translate well into your language. That's the simplest way I can think to explain it without spending twenty minutes here, so it'll have to suffice."
	She glances around. "Besides, we're already close to running late. Let's get going."
	You enter the complex and she speaks as you pass through a hallway filled with battle trophies. "I have requested this conversation happen in your language. This is not only politeness for your benefit, but it is also to mine. To shy from a challenge is not befitting a True Hai, and for this matter I think your tongue may be more eloquent. I should have them at a disadvantage in using it, as well." A moment later you reach a guarded door; you hand your gun to an Unfettered guard and hope Teeneep understands the Unfettered Hai as much as she claims to. Beyond, you enter a large room filled with uniformed Hai. You notice many of them have swords similar to Teeneep's, though they look more ceremonial than functional.
	As Teeneep walks in, an Unfettered moves to block her path. From the extensive decorations on his uniform, it appears he's a high-ranking officer. "You're not welcome here, False Hai." He starts to push her away. In one motion, Teeneep spins around, unsheathes a sword, and swipes it across his arm, drawing blood. The Hai grunts, surprised, and steps aside to let Teeneep pass. She walks toward the gigantic leader of the Unfettered, whose face betrays his surprise and admiration.
	(Walk in and join Teeneep.)
	(Stand in the room's entrance and watch.)
	As you enter the room, a pair of Unfettered grab you. Teeneep draws a throwing knife, saying with intensity, "Let Captain <last> go. Now." The Unfettered let go immediately, and she nods for you to stay where you are, sheathing the knife.
	The leader's voice booms from where he sits at the other end of the room. "Come, False Hai. You have entered here to make a case, have at it."
	Teeneep explains to the leader, "Five thousand Hai have been enslaved by human pirates, or vaporized when the human authorities have shot down their captors with no regard for the innocents on board. The Elders do not act. Will not act. They know, and do nothing. I have learned that they have known of some pirates who they felt were too much of a headache for decades, and that rather than hunt them down, they have paid them with technology. Our weapons and technology. Paid them off to simply leave us alone, and not even to return any Hai they may have captured.
	"You were once the protectors of all Hai. I would honor that not out of political opportunism, but because our people need heroes and protectors that the Elders are not. So I stand here to ask you to be so again. Free our people from slavery and kill their human slavers."
	The Unfettered leader responds, "Your people have outlawed and abandoned us. You give us insulting food donations with propaganda on them. You block our ships from returning to Hai-home. Why should we help you, a race of slothful cowards? Your people are willingly blind and lost, an insult to all Hai."
	Teeneep suddenly takes three strides forward, closing the distance between her and the Unfettered leader in less than a second. You had forgotten how quick Hai are; few humans could do what she just did. "I challenge you for rule of the Unfettered military!"
	"You haven't the authority to do that," he responds, laughing.
	"Besides..." you see one of the other Unfettered to the right of the leader begin to step out. "You would ha..." Teeneep cuts the leader off as she draws a throwing knife and launches it. It zips through the air, and spears the shoulder of the Unfettered who began to move, embedding itself in the wall behind and pinning them in place.
	"I would have to do what, defeat your right hand first?" She takes a step back and smirks at him. "Now, will you face a woman half your size?" From her expression, you're unsure if she genuinely has that much faith in her abilities, or if this is a bluff.
	The Unfettered leader pauses, then smiles. "There is no need. Even on our planets, I've rarely met a Hai half as brave as you. You have the courage to turn an act into action. You are a True Hai, and we protect our own. You have vouched for the value of the lives of these Hai, so I say now we are willing to send our fleets to their aid. I would come myself."
	She re-sheaths her swords and calls you over. "I have brought with me one of the greatest war heroes of the humans."
	(Walk to her.)
	"Captain <first> <last> led great fleets during a civil war of the humans. We will have the honor of fighting alongside this warrior of the humans."
	He looks at you appraisingly. "That is well, but there is a matter yet to be addressed. We cannot just 'waltz' through Hai and human space without being blasted. How will you convince your Elders to allow us passage?"
	"They will not allow it," says Teeneep. "We must force them."
	A round of muttering breaks out around the room.
	"The threat of true war, then..." In the ensuing silence you swear you could have heard a pin drop.
	Teeneep bows her head. "I know it is distasteful to consider this sort of show."
	The Unfettered leader considers her for a long moment before raising his head and slowly assessing the room, making eye contact with each of the others standing by.
	All bravado and bluster seems to be gone from him now as he finally speaks. "Five thousand Hai, you say?"
	"At least," she says, lifting her head to lock eyes with him.
	With the weight of a proclamation he responds, "Then it shall be so."
	There is a moment where it seems as if something respectful is being observed and then, like a switch being flicked, the energy returns and the leader smiles at you as those around start jostling and making quiet remarks to each other.
	The Unfettered leader seems to sense your confusion. "Neither True Hai nor Fettered truly desire to shed the blood of the other. Our disagreement is a protest, a lesson to be learned that we are learning but slowly. Perhaps it is time though that we demonstrate the seriousness of our resolve, especially if the Elders have become so mired as for it to have come to this."
	He grins. "I look forward to seeing you fight, human. Now both of you, go. Do what you must."
	Teeneep turns and leads you out, making sure they return your weapon as you leave. "Now we must return to <planet> and address the Elders again. Hopefully they will now see reason."
Sound the Alarm
Reach <planet> and deliver a warning.
An Elder of advanced age and poor eyesight. He is the "master navigator" of the Hai political system, being the first to improve on a system in several generations. He commands widespread respect and possesses enormous clout in the Council of Elders.
Upon your return, Teeneep lodges a formal demand for another audience with the Elders, including the context that she has acquired support from the Unfettered with appropriate proof. Once sent, Sayari steps out for a while to talk to someone and ensure that the demand is being processed with appropriate speed, leaving you and Teeneep alone in her office.
	Teeneep spends a few moments more doing some other things at her terminal before finally sitting back with an expression of quiet determination. In the quiet she turns to you from her seat and says, "Well, all the pieces are set, now I suppose all that remains is to play out the moves."
	"What will happen now then?"
	"Do you think the Elders will listen?"
	"Will there truly be a war between Hai and Unfettered?"
	"What are the other options?"
	"Who is Aimet?"
	She shrugs. "It is honestly quite hard to say. I struggle to believe that the Elders could be so unwilling to act that they would risk escalating the standoff with the Unfettered into a real war. Our brethren are no longer merely a disaffected rabble of veterans, camping on the one world that supported radical change. They are a truly empowered movement with consolidated support at home and sympathizers amongst the Hai at large."
	She sighs. "I wish to believe so, but part of me I can no longer ignore does not think it actually likely. Still, it is essential that I try with everything I have to make them do so. Otherwise there will be change, and we can be an unpredictable people in the face of that."
	She frowns and gently shakes her head. "No, or at least not yet. The willingness of the Unfettered to threaten war is essential to all of the possible paths from here. Even if the Elders refuse to take action, there are more steps between this meeting and that outcome. The options are not yet exhausted, though they are rapidly dwindling. With luck, though, Aimet's influence might tip the situation in our favor."
	"Ah, well those are difficult to explain, since the options worth using will depend on exactly what happens in the meeting. One thing Sayari was very right to remind me of before is that there are normal channels and processes to follow, and those must be followed. We're an old people, Captain <last>, and not always a very patient people. We've forged a system of government with systems and processes to allow almost any internal situation to be handled without resorting to base hysteria, and to actively punish and isolate those who try and subvert those processes. It is a difficult pill to swallow sometimes, but it works, and it has ensured stability since before humans learned to bash rocks together."
	Her mouth quirks in a sly little smile. "Aimet has always been the master navigator of those systems. He's responsible for improving one of them for the first time in two thousand years." She frowns. "It's actually very odd that he wasn't chosen for the Triad last time we were here."
	"He is the..." she pauses to look up aimlessly, "I don't think it translates quite right. You have a phenomenon in your language where you amalgamate words sometimes, like an engineer who works specifically on solutions to problems might be called a 'solutioneer'. We have a similar thing with our words for political systems and navigator. It's a title he has earned."
	She spreads her arms, 'palms' up, in a human gesture indicating a loss for words. "Our system of government has systems and processes to allow almost any internal situation to be handled without resorting to base hysteria, and to actively punish and isolate those who try and subvert those processes. It is a difficult pill to swallow sometimes, but it works, and it has ensured stability since before humans learned to bash rocks together. Aimet is the master navigator of those systems. He's responsible for improving one of them for the first time in two thousand years."
	Teeneep's console beeps a moment prior to Sayari's slightly breathless return. A message, entirely in your language, is displayed on the screen; it announces an emergency meeting of the full Elder Council in under an hour.
	Sayari steps across to Teeneep and glances at the message. "I needn't have left this room. We must prepare quickly, we're going to have an escort..."
	Teeneep's expression darkens, but she quickly ensures she has what she needs before a group of Council security staff arrive to take you to the chambers. This is not the first time you've seen the room, but it is the first time you've seen it full. There is a small desk and seat at the front of the central circle, opposite the entry point, which was not occupied when you entered here for dealing with Scar's Legion but now hosts a very serious Hai bearing unusual marks of office. Sayari sees your line of vision and nudges you, conveying in a whisper, "That's the moderator. They're only required when more than two thirds of the council is in attendance, and when there's a debate or petition to address."
	She glances around the room and raises an eyebrow. "This is a closed session, which is quite unusual for a full Council Assembly. This does not bode well."
	As the security staff take their place, the moderator walks over to address you while the Elders are still filtering in and muttering to each other. "Now, before we begin, I would like to confirm. I understand you are able to act as a witness, and confirm that the threat carried from the Unfettered was indeed real. Is this correct?"
	"That is correct."
	"I can also testify to the human position on the matter."
	The moderator pulls a strange face and says, "Right, well, I doubt that will be necessary.
	"Thank you, Captain. Since you have become involved as a witness, protocol dictates that the session will be held in your language, though for the sake of order normal council directions will still be in Hai. We will begin in a moment."
	After everyone is set in place, the moderator abruptly starts. "Teeneep has provided a confession about her visit to the Unfettered, incitement to war, involvement of outside government in internal Hai matters, and other concerns. She has justified this by an argument of necessity, that it is essential for action to be taken to produce both a peaceful outcome for the ongoing crisis with humanity and to heal a hole in the heart of our society."
	When the moderator refers to 'healing the hole', it is spoken with an emphasis that implies heavy quotation, and you can hear the muttering of translations and scoffs rippling out among the Elders in the room.
	Sayari hisses with distaste and quietly says, "The framing of this is terrible, someone has already decided what outcome they'd like to get and has got in on this process early."
	The moderator calls something out in Hai which ends with 'Teeneep' and Sayari translates, "The Council hears Teeneep."
	Not visibly disheartened by the situation, Teeneep steps into the middle and begins. She makes her case thoroughly and passionately, but with a clearly well-practiced presentation structure, ensuring that the full background for the situation is laid out for those present. Some Elders make snide comments at various points, but the moderator shuts them down and those most skeptical settle for being merely disengaged. When she presents the Unfettered's position as an offer of assistance there is a smattering of largely disbelieving sounds, though when she speaks of their willingness to force the matter the tone of the conversation gets remarkably more tense. "If you don't act, they will. Whether that's with you, or through you," she finishes.
	One of the more stubborn Elders stands up, heralded by the moderator. "The Unfettered have made serious attempts to push through at Wah Ki before, to no avail. More recently, they've been more trouble again, and again we have organized more than enough security to keep their disruption contained, even with the current human crisis. This threat is ridiculous, and the Unfettered would not dare, not while they are so dependent on our food and medical supplies these past years. They would most certainly sacrifice many thousands of lives in the pursuit of misguided justice for a mere handful."
	"You are blind. Blind and old and foolish," snaps Teeneep, but another Elder has leaped to their feet and the moderator cuts her off with a rebuke that you don't need translated to know what it means.
	After being properly heralded, the new Elder addresses you. "I understand Teeneep has enlisted you as her gopher. You have my sympathy. I have no doubt that your continued involvement means that you accept her conspiracy theories that many of the pirate activities, specifically relating to kidnapping and people smuggling, are a coordinated effort. So I will not waste time retreading your position on points she has just laid out. I must ask you of this recent interaction, though. Tell me, how would you characterize Teeneep's meeting with the Unfettered Choot'k: constructive, aggressive, or something else?"
	"It was a constructive discussion."
	"I witnessed the test of two wills."
	"The meeting was poignant."
	"Very aggressive and confronting."
	You hear many sighs, and several Elders shrug, but nobody seems surprised, just disappointed. "They grow ever more brazen in their desire for change," says the Elder. "Thank you, Captain <last>."
	Many elders chuckle around the room. The Elder says, "Ah, our pair of old rivals, divided by Cloudfire. The embers are not yet quenched then." At this, Teeneep rolls her eyes and the Elder departs.
	There is a quiet shuffling as some of the elders sit up a little straighter. The Elder says, "A common ground between rivals, a fearsome thing indeed."
	A roomful of laughter engulfs your words, but many Elders appear offended by their peers' mockery. The Elder who questioned you explains, "The Elders and the Unfettered have different views of what constitutes a 'constructive discussion.' You lack the biases of a Hai. If you say it was constructive, I believe you." The tone of the room changes after that, as the laughter ends. Most Elders appear to agree with your assessment, and many who laughed look ashamed.
	Sayari gives you a meaningful look and whispers, "A lot of them paid attention to that..."
	The next Elder to their feet is an older lady Hai, and her expression alone is enough to cause a flicker of concern to disrupt Teeneep's careful mask of calm. She gestures around the room, pointing with a digit and squinting at several others in the room. "You are, all of you, cowards. This is the highest chamber of the Hai, elected to protect and serve, and to ensure the enduring stability of the great edifice which is now a hundred millennia of stability. This one here has sought to upend that authority and topple that edifice in favor of nothing more than a statistical blip. Five thousand Hai in two hundred years is barely a concern. That many managed to get themselves killed swimming with Gelo Appanoh in the last decade alone! Freedom through peace, peace through order, order through security, and security through secrecy. This is the mandate of this chamber, and no matter how virtuous the challenger may be, this threat cannot be allowed to stand!"
	There is a growing rumble of assent as the crescendo of her impassioned statement crests to its conclusion. She levels a clawed finger directly at Teeneep and the room is filled with the angry cries of both those emboldened by her diatribe and those distressed by her implication. The moderator makes several attempts to restore order as over a dozen Elders jump to their feet, but the cacophony is not so easily restrained. At your side, Sayari's expression is ashen, but Teeneep seems to be seeking out a particular face somewhere in the room with a fierce intensity.
	There is a shift in the sound of the room and your attention is drawn to one Hai in particular, a particularly elderly man who struggles to his feet in a series of pained stages. The effect on the assembly is profound, though. A ripple of silence flows outward from his position, and Elders all around promptly drop back into their seats as it reaches them, leaving a scant handful who were too slow to react to have their final words trail off awkwardly. Only the last speaker remains on her feet, the moderator weakly announcing in Hai what you know to be, "The council hears Aimet."
	"Security through secrecy..." He coughs. "You throw that in there as if it were always so Gemnali but, unlike you, I was there when it was added to the mandate of this chamber."
	He peers around the room, and you realize he is blind, or nearly so. "Freedom may be achieved through peace, but peace must not be maintained at the cost of freedom. Order may not be pursued at the cost of peace, nor security at the cost of order. Always this mandate must be considered in both directions. To censure this woman, to resist action on this matter... You would have us pursue secrecy at the cost of security."
	He coughs again, and it echoes in the silence of nearly a hundred Hai holding their breath. When he continues, his voice grows stronger and sharper. "My eyes may not see as well as they used to, but there are many in this chamber who are yet too blind to see. The edifice of our stability is not threatened by this woman who would have us restore security to our lost brethren. It is you who would use her virtue to topple it yourself."
	The silence stretches with all eyes on Gemnali. She clenches her fists, shaking with barely suppressed emotion, before collapsing back into her seat as if physically struck.
	Whatever spell had held the room is immediately broken and a susurrus of murmuring rises to fill its space. Within the noise a certain phrase starts to be repeated multiple times, drawing an expression of shock from Sayari.
	"What are they saying?"
	"What just happened?"
	She glances at you briefly. "They are saying: Veeheylur and Misanaya fight over Eyrisen." Her tone carries with it a sense of awe, and despite the growing volume in the room she leans in close to you and continues in scarcely more than a whisper, "The Mythos has been invoked."
	As Aimet painfully resumes his seat, one Elder who has thus far been maintaining a fairly neutral demeanor in this seems to regain a certain sense of himself and stands up, quickly heralded by the moderator, who struggles to compose himself suitably. "I think the Council has heard enough. The petitioner is entitled to a closing statement, unless there is objection?"
	None of those assembled who might object seem to have recovered their composure enough to stand up quickly, and the moderator, perhaps sensing a politic moment to intervene, quickly announces the closing of the interrogation and calls the Council to hear Teeneep again.
	Teeneep quickly plasters back on her mask of calm as best she is able to and says, "Thank you all for your ears. You are those we trust to decide, but know this: If you will not listen to this here, then apparently I must now be the one to present a pathway to avoid war. The Unfettered are committed, no matter what path I choose now. If you do not take action, I will make the history of inaction I have discovered public knowledge. Every Hai from Greenwater to Snowfeather will know by the end of the day."
	One Elder cries out, "You wouldn't dare!" To which Teeneep responds, "It is already scheduled to happen unless I actively stop it!"
	Before any further exchange can occur, though, the moderator bellows for security to escort you all from the session and shouts down the offending Elder for impropriety. The two remain engaged in a lively shouting match as you depart, the echoes following you until the chamber doors are shut.
	Teeneep moves to pull out a datapad, but both the security officers and Sayari step in to stay her hand. "The chamber will have to vote on the proposition to act," says Sayari, looking at Teeneep pointedly. "You know that external contact is forbidden during the deliberation grace window."
	"The deliberation grace window?"
	"So what, do we just wait?"
	Teeneep sighs and points an exasperated expression your way. "Yes, after certain types of chamber hearings there is an enforced period where the petitioner must remain isolated to the chamber's waiting area, including digitally. I forgot for a moment."
	Sayari smiles at you. "Don't worry though, it's only for about twenty-three of your minutes." She eyes the security officer warily. "After a session such as that though, the traditional wisdom is to wait in relative silence."
	"If it wasn't a closed session we wouldn't be doing this," harrumphs Teeneep. "I hadn't realized it would be so didn't plan for it."
	After only about seventeen minutes the moderator slips out and exchanges some words with Teeneep and Sayari before re-entering the chamber. "We've been released," says Sayari. "They've voted to take no immediate action, either for or against Teeneep."
	Teeneep just shakes her head, pulls out a datapad, and quickly taps a few times. "Well, that was going to happen in an hour. No point waiting, though. Let's get dinner."
	(Get dinner.)
	(Decline and maybe eat with the diplomats.)
	There are some perfectly adequate meal places in the cafeteria area. There you manage to join Alondo and Remington, who have a surprisingly civilized conversation the entire time. Albeit mostly about work.
	You're still finishing up a little shortly after they leave, at which point a harried-looking Sayari appears and practically sprints across the room to you.
	You join Teeneep and Sayari at a fusion restaurant about a block down the road from the 'Elders' Chambers' - which turns out to be the official name of the whole government complex.
	Having finished your main meal, and while waiting for some dessert that Teeneep has ordered, Sayari pulls out her datapad. "You know, while we're waiting. It's probably a good idea to check the damage. I don't know if your plan is actually going to have the desired effect, you know. Especially after that scene in there; no doubt the long tooths will get riled up."
	"What was that in there about the Mythos?"
	"What will happen if they get riled up?"
	Teeneep rolls her eyes, putting her drink down with a sharp clink. "It's superstition. Humans have their religions, the Hai have the Mythos. It's a collection of stories about Hai who lived incredibly long lives and were involved in or responsible for incredibly influential events in our history, or more accurately pre-history for the vast majority of them. If you believe the stories literally, these Hai transcended mortal limitations and achieved immortality; our word for them translates imprecisely to either 'immortals' or 'imperishables'. When someone embodies a character from it well enough, there's a set of people who will believe it's actually that person come back to steer things.
	"Someone in there has linked that scene to a story, in which I am implicated as Eyrisen."
	She scoffs and waves a paw dismissively. "The contingencies shouldn't be affected. Superstition is mostly dead, it's really only the Elders that subscribe to it." She pauses and looks at Sayari. "The plan will work just fine."
	Sayari grumbles, "There's plenty of older Hai, those 'long tooths', that align with particular political factions. They also tend to subscribe, at least selectively, to the superstitions. Despite what Teeneep says, I would not count out the potential impact that scene in there could have on the situation."
	She rounds on Teeneep. "I mean, seriously, Tee, what will you do if the plan doesn't play out fine? Will the Hai actually have to shed our brethren's blood with lethal intent?"
	Teeneep just sips her drink and shakes her head. "Oh, Sayari, you really are getting too long in the tooth yourself for domestic politics these days."
	A moment later Sayari squeaks and looks up in horror. "You triggered an election?! This wasn't just making it public, you had the petition for redress ready to go all along!"
	She scrolls down on her pad several times and begins to mutter, "Oh dear, oh no." She lapses into Hai for a moment before returning. "It hit the trending issues board, and triggered the safety policy alert response. People got direct notifications that this was an issue. There are over two billion supporting votes for an injunctive action and it's only been two hours... this is what you hoped would happen, isn't it?"
Teeneep places a gentle hand on Sayari's arm. "Better this than war."
	Sayari's eyes are alive with thinly-veiled panic as she slams her hand down on the table. "Captain <last>, you must leave immediately. Get on your ship and fly to <planet> right now! The winds of change are afoot and we will have an election. They'll hit the threshold in maybe only twenty minutes, and it'll take maybe thirty more for the bureaucracy to act on it. The instant the election is announced formally, all non-essential ships will be grounded, all communication in or out of Hai space will be cut off, and the border will be sealed to everyone - not in the polite way either. If even one ship tries to cross the border to investigate... there's no telling what will happen."
	"Go, go with all possible haste! I will tell the others, but right now you must go. Now!"
As you enter Waypoint one of the Hai captains hails you. "Captain, we've orders to close the border to everyone, but... we know you've been doing official business, and we haven't been told to specifically block you. We also owe you one. You can go through, but don't try and bring anyone with you. We'll have no choice but to fire upon you and them if you do."
The spaceport appears to be operating on a skeleton staff with an increased security presence. Plenty of ships are still coming and going, but they seem to be here strictly on business. The usual milling of tourists, haggling of merchants, and perusal of jobs all appear to have been suspended in favor of efficient boarding and disembarking of Hai with places to go and goods with places to be. The displays in the main thoroughfare have been switched over to wall-to-wall election coverage and the rest of the non-essential sections of the spaceport have been closed.
	Some of the restaurants that are currently closed have set up temporary stands near the displays with the most standing room in the vicinity, and are serving food to those who have no choice but to be here for some duration of time.
	(Get some food.)
	(Ask around for an update.)
	(Return to your ship.)
	The stalls have a range of tasty Hai and Hai-human fusion cuisines in disposable takeaway trays. At first glance they appear to be some sort of cardboard equivalent, but a Hai near you finishes their meal and then begins nibbling on the tray afterwards.
	The election coverage is in Hai, naturally, but there's a strong sense that people are still scrambling to have relevant commentary on such short notice and with no prior opinion polling in lead-up. It certainly seems like things are heated. Different charts being presented for the same areas seem to suggest that there's a great deal of controversy and some very strong opinions being thrown around. A number of the Hai nearby make some sounds of concern occasionally, but they do not stay around to comment. Unfortunately, nothing comes up in your language by the time you've finished your food.
	(Eat the tray.)
	The tray is hard and difficult to break. It does have a remarkably intriguing combination of nutty and herby flavors that would probably be quite enjoyable, but you don't quite have the teeth for it.
	When you ask around, a lot of Hai don't seem to be very interested in talking to you. One, in particular, looks like they recognized you and actively avoided you. After approaching a half dozen Hai unsuccessfully, one takes pity and comes to you. He appears to be of middling years and extends a paw to shake your hand in a friendly manner.
	"Apologies for my brethren's behavior, Captain, but this is a very important time for the Hai. Many are under significant strain to be informed and also maintain their essential business as captains themselves. There are a number of regulations for Hai citizens to stay on top of if they are frequently moving between worlds during the period, and they haven't had the time to prepare that they usually would."
	"Is politics a very important matter for the Hai?"
	"What do they need to prepare for an election?"
	He gestures at the various Hai captains paying close attention to the election coverage or scrolling information feeds on their data pads. "No one is more closely tied to the specific dynamics of trade between our worlds, and the subtleties of what makes them healthy, than our merchant captains are. I believe the human phrase is that they have their, 'fingers on the pulses', yes? This election has nothing to do with economics, and yet all the candidates have historical economic platforms that they can be expected to bring with them. These captains are being bombarded by queries from friends, families, organizations they trade with frequently, institutions they studied at or supported, local media outlets, and more.
	"Ordinarily, they would spend at least a month checking on different things and solidifying their positions before an election. A snap election has robbed them of that preparation time, and so they are stressed and concerned. Many, including myself, will have to put up with the consequences of this election for at least the next two decades before any meaningful correction can occur, should the outcome be unfortunate. Long is the timeline that a Hai merchant must consider when asked who should be supported in an election."
	He smiles. "You must not have considered the Hai lifespan, Captain. A human might not understand the situation to have nuanced opinions until they are more than twenty years of age, and by the time they are fifty the outcome of their votes are unlikely to have a large effect on the remainder of their lives. It is comparatively easy, if things are okay, for you to simply ignore your politics in favor of other things. A Hai may live for over three hundred years, if they are quite fortunate, but will in most cases still be trying to make a livelihood halfway through that. Barring accident, stupidity, or malicious action, a Hai will typically live to see the longer term effects of their voting preferences. The more wealth a Hai has, the more significant those effects are likely to be. There are few Hai more politically aware than merchant captains, and fewer still whose opinions on the effects of change are trusted more widely.
	"Our merchant captains are bombarded by queries from friends, families, organizations they trade with frequently, institutions they studied at or supported, local media outlets, and more. Ordinarily, they would spend at least a month checking on different things and solidifying their positions before an election. A snap election has robbed them of that preparation time, and so they are stressed and concerned."
	There is a gentle ping, and the Hai looks at a device on his wrist. "And now it seems my ship is finished refueling, and I too must be about my business. Safe travels, Captain."
	With nothing else to do here you return to your ship.
Into the Lion's Den
Travel back to <planet> and ensure the diplomats are safe.
Mountaintop appears to be in chaos by the time you dock and make your way onto the promenade. Discarded equipment is scattered in many places and a whole group of Hai are desperately lining up to try and get on one of the Hai merchant ships to return to Hai space, all while trying to pretend like it's for some movie exercise. A selection of brave but confused tourists are trying to work out how to get from one place to another, now that the line has disrupted all normal flow through this section. Someone is crying behind a greenscreen, and a great many people involved both in running the station and making the movie seem to be frantically attempting to keep up with events. The hectic order that was present last time is nowhere to be seen.
	You can't find Terry. She seems to be battling organizational fires and moving round the station fast enough that by the time you get to where she's last been, she's already moved on somewhere else; possibly twice. However, Turner manages to find you in relatively short order.
	"Captain <last>!" he calls out, audible even over the chaos. He strides up to you quickly and then pulls you aside to a sheltered spot. "Thank the cosmos you're here. I don't know what the devil is going on, either out there or in here, but it's absolute madness."
	Before you can get a word in he's powered on.
	"Look at this!" He thrusts a stack of pages at you, pointing to some text that's too small to read while he keeps moving it. "Somehow there's now three alien races involved in this plot, and two are transparently Quarg and Korath. People aren't even meant to know about the Korath!"
	"Turner, I'm here on urgent business."
	"Know about who?"
	He ignores you and continues, "There's philosopher kings involved, and they go off to some ringworld that someone's made up just to work out how to track something through hyperspace! Have you ever heard of anything so ridiculous? This whole plot device wasn't explained until today, and now we've got two thirds of the scenes shot and a script that needs massive rewrites!
	"I mean look at this, look!" He flips to another page with a section circled in red. He takes it back reads aloud, "The two come close and look into each other's eyes for a moment before kissing. Stage Note: Produce different models to focus group the aesthetic look of open-mouth kissing when both participants have finger-length incisors."
	He gesticulates, apparently at a loss for words. "Who even wrote this? Who writes this stuff? Why would you even put that in there?"
	"Sorry, you were presumably here on business, what's going on out there?"
	"The Hai have closed their borders and may shoot anyone trying to pass through the wormhole."
	"The Hai are having an election, and Sayari is expecting political chaos. Is everyone here okay?"
	"They're having a what?" He listens incredulously as you explain the situation with pirate slavers, the Unfettered support, the public shaming and the snap election.
	"We suspected that, we haven't been game to test, but why?" He listens incredulously as you explain the situation with pirate slavers, the Unfettered support, the public shaming and the snap election.
	When you finish on the possibility of an Unfettered war fleet appearing at the wormhole to scour pirate worlds, he stops you with a pained expression. "Well, it's all falling apart, isn't it... Alright, look, this is above my pay-grade, and I don't think within Terry's either. You need to go contact Admiral Danforth. The connection from here to Farpoint is excellent now, since all our other traffic is routing through those new relays, so it should be easy enough. I'll make sure no one does anything stupid from this side. I'm sure there's a solution here, we all just need to keep our heads and call the right people."
	"I'll go to my ship's comms now and call him."
	From back on your ship it is easy enough to use the station's network to place a call. You get in contact with Danforth to brief him on what's going on, with the possibility of an Unfettered fleet coming through the wormhole in a matter of days. He seems unsurprised, but disappointed. "Well, I'll scramble some additional Navy forces. We'll hopefully make sure that whatever happens, we'll have some options."
	You can hear him grimace on the call. "When this went on as long as it did, I pulled strings to get some Cruisers specially equipped for deep-range, long-duration missions." He sighs. "This is one of those situations where I really wish I hadn't prepared for an eventuality and been right about it.
	"I'll be there with a fleet soon. In the meantime, you need to go back to <planet> to ensure the safety of the diplomatic corps. Get them out if need be, otherwise just be there with a ship so you can monitor the situation."
A New Elder
Travel with Teeneep and the diplomatic corps to <stopovers> and escort the Unfettered to <planet>.
You are granted access to the secure spaceport, potentially because nobody has filed any paperwork to stop you, and you can't help but notice that the strangely-outfitted Centipede from Teeneep's operations on Darkwaste has made its way here as well. It is late in the day when you enter the diplomatic wing of the government complex. The developing gloom as Ya Hai sinks behind the buildings of the capital underscores the mood; the place appears nearly deserted.
	Fortunately though, you swiftly discover Alondo and Remington who are sitting in the empty cafeteria with paired glasses of what appears to be scotch whiskey. When he sees you Alondo raises a hand and gestures for you to sit with them. "<first>! Bloody hell, come join us."
	"Are you all ok?"
	"How long have you been here?"
	Remington shifts his weight and determinedly pushes his wrist across his chest until his jacket sleeve pushes up far enough for him to look at his watch. After a lengthy pause spent staring at it's screen he screws up his face, finishes his drink, and says, "At least two hours too long."
	Alondo grimaces, raises his eyebrows, and gives a lopsided shrug which altogether does a remarkable job of conveying the sentiment: 'so far it looks like it, but I still need at least one more stiff drink to get over it'. Remington looks at him and chuckles halfheartedly before emptying his glass and putting it down with a sharp clink. "We weren't sure for a while there, but other than being cut off, we're okay."
	Alondo gestures at the large, wall-mounted monitor they've been watching, and you realize that it must be displaying some kind of post-election coverage. The writing is all in Hai, but it seems that the majority of the information that would matter to the diplomats has been displayed visually. On its own you'd have never guessed at trying to read Teeneep's name written in Hai, but when it's presented next to her face and then shown on a pie chart next to percentages and other graphics, it becomes easy enough to follow what's happening.
	"Who won the election?"
	"Can either of you explain all of this?"
	"Every so often they have a segment in something we can understand, presumably because of the rest of us out there," says Remington, gesturing vaguely beyond the walls to the outside. "You wouldn't believe some of the rhetoric the last few days while you've been gone."
	Alondo visibly shudders, and pushes the bottle across the table back to Remington. "Sometimes it was like watching the old documentaries and political dramas I studied back at school. The ones where there's some populist extremist with dangerous ideas that the establishment is just blindly assuming couldn't possibly be successful, while at the same time that same populist is whipping crowds into a violent frenzy on the streets outside."
	On the screen the face of a charming-looking male Hai comes up and Alondo points with sudden vigor. "Him! I swear there was going to be torches and pitchforks right below my window one night thanks to him. He's here on Hai-home, as are his followers."
	You are relieved to see that when it flicks over to the stats, the individual in question looks to be losing out on whatever his target was by a nice, comfortable, seven percentage points.
	Remington nods sagely and an unreadable expression flicks between them for a moment before he looks back at you. "The Hai electoral system seems quite simple on the surface, but they seem to have a complex series of reserve steps and fail-safes for if any outcomes aren't clear enough for their thresholds. For almost all of yesterday I couldn't even find a Hai in this very building who could translate what was going on well enough to make sense of it.
	"They only started locking in the last few seats a couple of hours ago. Until then we could have been prisoners and at war by now for all we knew. Peace-oriented heads seem to have prevailed though, but there's no lack of passion even in them. Near as I can tell from what has been explained and what I'm seeing; a third of the Elders have been replaced, which is the fastest change they've had since they were invaded by Korath... which I also didn't know was a thing that had happened until yesterday."
	He manages to make that last line sound both bewildered and grumpy at the same time. "That Teeneep you've been running around with - and yes, don't look at me in shock, Sayari told me when we were concerned you might not get out. You've developed some friends in high places and I admire that... where was I?"
	"Teeneep!" says Alondo, perhaps a little too loudly, nearly poking Remington in the face.
	"Of course, that Teeneep of yours, she had her position settled yesterday. She's being..." He curls his lip and frowns while looking for the right word. "Inaugurated! She's being inaugurated in about an hour or so. It's why we're still here. She's the youngest 'elder' since before we developed fire, or some similarly ridiculous time-frame. She seems to have the most influence among the new lot, at least now that 'sir pitchforks and Pulse Rifles' down there has definitively lost. She's a firebrand, that one, but she seems principled and decent. We're waiting to hear what she has to say in her victory speech."
	Remington answers your question. "That Teeneep of yours, she had her position settled yesterday. She's being..." He curls his lip and frowns while looking for the right word. "Inaugurated! She's being inaugurated in about an hour or so. It's why we're still here. She's the youngest 'elder' since before we developed fire, or some similarly ridiculous time-frame. She seems to have the most influence among the new lot. She's a firebrand, that one, but she seems principled and decent. We're waiting to hear what she has to say in her victory speech."
	Alondo wobbles over to the bar and says, "I'll get you a drink, <last>. What'll you have?"
	"Just a water for me, thanks."
	"It's time for some celebratory beer. I'll have the best ale!"
	"I'll need some 'medicine' to get through this horror. Anything at least 80 proof should do."
	After a few more drinks, Teeneep's speech comes on. Either it's all in Hai, or you drank more than you thought. The speech is short and punchy, but restrained; or at least her delivery of it has that feeling. With nothing else to do, and it being well into the evening, you call it a night.
	As it turns out, Teeneep's speech is in Hai with no translation available. It's short and punchy, but restrained; or at least her delivery of it has that feeling. With nothing else to do, and it being well into the evening, you call it a night.
	The following morning Sayari finds you with Alondo, Remington, Xilin and Batu all having vending machine breakfasts in the cafeteria. It turns out Hai vending machines aren't half bad.
	"Morning to all of you." She seems a little stiff compared to normal. "I'm glad you're all here together, it'll save me some time. Now, I have good news and bad news. I believe it's polite to ask which do you want first?"
	Alondo and Remington both groan, neither having pulled up particularly well this morning. Xilin has a great deal more composure but looks like he's not had a break from stress in well over a month... which is probably accurate. "Why don't you pick, <last>?" he says.
	"Good news."
	"Bad news."
	"Well, the bad news is that I'm afraid you're all going somewhere. You have an hour to collect your things and be ready to go. We are going to rendezvous with a fleet."
	That seems to make people sit up a bit straighter and Alondo seems to unconsciously stabilize himself against Remington's shoulder. "The good news is that we're probably not going to be getting into a fight. The new Elder council has somewhat more, uh, flexibility than the previous one."
	"Well, the good news is that we're probably not going to be getting into a fight with the Republic. Peaceful voices for change triumphed over more radical instigators. The new Elder council has somewhat more, uh, flexibility than the previous one."
	Xilin actively seems to draw strength from this news, and Remington claps Alondo on the shoulder with a quiet, "told ya." Sayari continues. "The bad news is that I'm afraid you're all going somewhere. You have an hour to collect your things and be ready to go. We have a fleet to meet and there's more work ahead of us."
	The freshest of the group, Batu, seems to twig to something first. "There's going to be an ultimatum, isn't there? The fleet is a threat."
	"Yes," says Sayari. "It's going to be a very broad ultimatum though, with lots of room for the Republic to decide how it's addressed; and no one is shooting at anyone without talking first. Now, all of you except <last> are traveling with Elder Teeneep. I suggest you go and prepare immediately."
	As the meeting disperses, Sayari motions for you. She leads you away to have a private discussion.
	"What has Teeneep done, Sayari?"
	"I take it you need another ride?"
	She puts her paw over her face and breathes a long sigh. "Yes, Captain <last>, I do need another ride." She smiles sadly and looks away for a moment.
	Her tone is very serious as she explains, "Things might be tense now, but I promise, things aren't as bad as they look. I know Teeneep, and she has the influential backing of another long-time advocate for sensible change, who was also just elected. They are remaining here to reinforce her position. Teeneep displaced that Elder who threatened her in the chambers. It's upset all the long-term power dynamics in the Council, but it's a much better Council overall now.
	"Events are in motion though, we're to go to <stopovers> and then to <planet> - and you're to come with us too. I don't think it's something they view as optional, and I'm told I'm required to travel with you... as insurance."
She hesitates, seeming oddly nervous for the one who theoretically has all the power in the room. "<last>, this will sound silly, but I'm a bit of a traditionalist sometimes. There's a superstition about space travel, and under the circumstances... I'm too old for this stress. Could you please do me a favor and make sure you have a Quantum Keystone on your ship? It's meant to be good luck, and well, I think we need it."
	"No."
	Her expression is deeply wounded, but she sets her resolve. "Then this is no longer a request. It's a requirement.
	She looks relieved. "Thank you, I really appreciate it.
	"I'll be along in a bit, I need to go and collect my things for traveling now too."
As you prepare your ship you are informed that you will be traveling to <stopovers> before going to <planet>.
It seems Teeneep has got the Elders to agree to the deal with the Unfettered. A large Unfettered fleet joins you here.
You have either not stopped on Everhope as instructed, or you have left Sayari behind. Remember, her superstition has gotten the better of her under these pressing circumstances, so you must have a Quantum Keystone installed for her to travel with you.
You have failed an essential narrative mission. You've also made the Hai hostile. If you want to complete this story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
A Time of Trouble
Escort innocent civilians to <planet>, safely away from the 'Pirate Menace'.
Upon docking at <origin>, now bereft of civilians, you and Sayari are kept out of things for a little while, as some business occurs behind a Navy security barricade in the direction of where Teeneep's ship docked. Neither Terry nor Turner are allowed through either, as Navy personnel progressively establish operations and set secure areas on the station. Eventually Batu is sent out to get all of you and escort you in.
	As you reach Xilin, who is also joined by other diplomats and even Danforth, Sayari is intercepted by a Hai functionary and led away. Xilin looks at you all with a grave face and begins. "So. The Hai have broadcast the threat that if the Republic does not treat with them seriously, the united Hai will move in without Republic approval to search for their people. We're at a political impasse now, as the Cabinet is blocking any progress.
	"The Hai have demanded we cut through the red tape by having the heads of state meet." He turns to you briefly. "They insist on you as a mediator. I think behind-the-scenes discussions have reached the point where we can proceed, and we've gathered to prepare you for the meeting."
	"What if we solve the kidnapping problem instead of the Hai doing it?"
	"What if we let them through, to attack the pirate planets?"
	"Who in the Cabinet is blocking progress?"
	"Can the Hai really pass through, with the Republic Navy blocking their way?"
	"I'm ready to mediate. Let's assemble the heads of state."
	Xilin responds, "The Navy has blockaded the wormhole to the best of its ability, but the reality is that the Navy is already heavily committed, and barely look to be a match for the Hai fleet numbers. The Hai, on the other hand, do not yet appear to be committed heavily." He looks at Alondo briefly. "We had the unstated privilege of observing the Hai security fleet left behind on Everhope in addition to what we saw beyond the wormhole on our way in."
	Danforth interjects, "In short, we doubt we can stop them while we're stretched out here... and if the reality is that they're only going to go after pirate worlds... well, we'd be under orders to disengage. The political crisis would be more tolerable than the probable military defeat."
	Xilin nods grimly. "However, that would be a drastic failure of foreign policy."
	Xilin replies, "That would undermine the legitimacy of the Republic, especially after the war we've just had, and it would be impossible to realistically assure people that an invasion is really not going to happen. True or not. In all likelihood the Republic would fracture and the Free Worlds would probably be on the receiving end of a migration crisis. Parliament has tried to say that they'll take care of it themselves, but the Hai say they've had enough of sitting around and want to be there to save their own people."
	Xilin says, "They haven't outright said it... but they've implied that the Navy could end up killing the Hai involved in the process by not understanding the capabilities of the Hai, or by placing too great an emphasis on preserving Navy lives. The Cabinet is in disagreement about what to do, so there is deadlock at the moment."
	Xilin proceeds to list off a number of names, but to everyone's irritation and surprise, Turner cuts in. "Remington, I know you're the PR guy, and you keep your nose out of sales, so I apologize if it's presumptuous for me to assume you haven't considered this, but most of those names are people who listen to the Syndicate. I should know, I've had to negotiate with them as a bloc often enough for government contracts. Has anyone on your side reported back to the Syndicate Board and suggested that, perhaps, if we can influence them to support a solution that we propose; even if we don't have that solution defined yet; the Hai could be a very large and very profitable market for Syndicate goods?"
	There is a long, expectant pause as Remington looks to Terry and they engage in some kind of silent exchange before he replies. "You know, I don't think we'd connected those two specific dots just yet." He looks at Terry. "We need to make some calls."
	A few hours later, they manage to set up a clear channel dedicated to the meeting in a room with large wall-mounted displays. Xilin and Alondo are standing near you, slightly off camera. Alondo explains, "We've arranged a high-reliability feed directly to the President of the Republic and the Chancellor of the Free Worlds. You'll see them here soon, along with Teeneep and Sayari from another room in the station."
	Soon after, the leaders all appear. You knew the moment was coming but you're still a little surprised to see the President and Chancellor in remarkable clarity and surprisingly low latency. The windows behind the Chancellor suggest they were awoken in the middle of the night for this, but you wouldn't guess it from looking at them.
	Xilin whispers to you, "Teeneep wants you to mediate, so you need to begin the proceedings. Ask her to present the problem."
	"Would the Hai representative please present us the problem we must solve together?"
	"Teeneep, please explain the problem to the human leaders. I'm sure we can come to a compromise that will suit everyone."
	Teeneep responds, "Thank you for mediating these proceedings, Captain <last>."
	Teeneep explains, "I speak as the voice of the Hai and with the full authority of the Elder Council. Thousands of our people have been kidnapped over the past few decades, and they still largely reside under the servitude of various pirate factions that the Republic allows to continue. Even worse, your authorities have allowed numerous Hai to be slipped past on slaver ships, without attempting rescue because of the no boarding policy your forces employ, even on disabled and potentially doomed ships. We demand the return of our people and an immediate end to the policy of letting slaves die or escape without attempting boarding and rescue."
	The President is the first to respond. "The problem of piracy in human space is a difficult one and cannot be solved overnight. The pirates are well-entrenched in their planets, and fighting them is a long and brutal struggle. With our navies distracted fighting one another, our recent war has left them stronger than ever."
	The Chancellor states, "However, the Free Worlds has made great strides reducing piracy by befriending the peoples of the anarchist worlds. We are discussing similar approaches with the Republic. Perhaps in another few years, piracy will be entirely eliminated."
	Xilin whispers to you again, "The problem is of immediate concern, and the Hai will not view this as an acceptable proposal. They need to respond."
	"Is this an acceptable proposal, Teeneep?"
	"With respect, Chancellor, this is a problem of immediate concern. I'm sure the Hai representative would like to respond to that before we continue."
	Teeneep looks perturbed, and has to make an effort to hold back her anger and resentment. The other heads of state don't seem to notice; perhaps you're more sensitive to Hai facial expressions after the time you have spent with them. "Of course not," she says.
	Teeneep responds plainly, "We are a peaceful people by nature, but these pirate attacks have gone too far. We support a solution that benefits the innocent inhabitants of the pirate worlds. However, there must be immediate action, not years of delay."
	Xilin whispers to you, "Ask politely for a counter-proposal."
	"Are there any counter-proposals?"
	"Surely a group of enlightened human leaders can propose an alternative?"
	The President presents a stony mask at being patronized, but the Chancellor smirks. You get a furry little smile from Teeneep.
	"We have a counter-proposal," the President says. "We cannot afford to change our policy in totality, it would cost too many lives. However, we propose the following: the Free Worlds and Republic will establish a customs service on Mountaintop. Hai visiting human space will check in with us there. Our intelligence agencies will then track their movements in order to see to their safety as best we can. They'll also be given contacts on every human planet that they can go to for help. In the meantime, we will place extensive surveillance fleets at Ultima Thule to detect any unapproved Hai travel. We will do our best to disable and capture ships with kidnapped Hai, no matter the risk to Navy lives."
	"The Free Worlds will also extend our protection, of course," the Chancellor adds.
	Teeneep looks relieved by this suggestion.
	Xilin whispers to you, "This is the solution everyone already discussed behind the scenes on the human side. You need to confirm the Hai will accept it."
	"Would that be acceptable, Elder Teeneep?"
	"Teeneep, will that satisfy the Hai?"
	Teeneep takes a moment to respond. "That sounds like an acceptable future state... but I cannot sign any treaty yet. The Hai will not be satisfied until our kidnapped brethren are returned."
	The President replies, "The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been keeping the Cabinet apprised of the major details and proposals reported back by Deputy Minister Yang. Under the circumstances we believe it would be appropriate for us to attempt a joint effort to address your concerns. We agree to making this effort against one target, and to reassessing the situation afterwards depending upon what is discovered in that process. The Republic representatives there with you now will work with you to identify that target and plan the action accordingly."
	The smoothness with which this goes down gives you the sense that the main points of this were all provisionally agreed to already, with only a little wiggle room left to be settled in this conversation.
	Sayari steps up and whispers something to Teeneep who then seems to think for a moment before returning to the screens. "This pathway is acceptable."
	Xilin whispers to you, "The functionaries are waiting for your signal to end the call so we can implement the decision. And, of course, so the Chancellor can get some sleep."
	"That ends these proceedings."
	"Thank you, President, Chancellor, and Hai representative."
	The President and Chancellor nod mechanically while Teeneep perks her ears and tilts her head in a motion that usually signals pride.
	After the screens go off, a number of people involved in the busywork of bureaucracy start slipping out of the room, doubtlessly to get a head start on certain preparations, as Teeneep and the leaders on the screen conclude some formal thanks for continued cooperation and other matters of protocol. You are too visible to slip away though and have to wait.
	When you finally emerge Terry and Turner are waiting for you. Terry addresses you. "Captain <last>. We have a little problem. The many civilians that have been living under this cover or being serviced by it have been kept in the dark, and are very nervous about the massed Navy ships. They've been so far sold a story about a 'pirate menace,' and now we need them out of here."
	Turner smiles, "And I think it would be appropriate if you, as the famous war hero, were the one to escort them to safety and keep everyone's eyes away from what's happening here."
	The two of them look at each other for a second before Terry says, "We also need to get out of here ourselves. With the movie cover shutting down, we both have other things we really should be doing, and so we'd like to come with you. It would be much safer on your ship than with any of the merchant ships that need escorting."
Visiting chef
Food connoisseur
Tourist
Tour guide
This may sound odd, but the acorn cookies they sell here are the best cookies I've ever eaten.
A Hai-human fusion restaurant near here sells peanut pizza. It sounds gross, but the taste is heavenly.
They make beer from fermented nuts here. I didn't know you could do that!
I just can't get enough acorn stew. These Hai cooks are amazing.
Peanut this, walnut that, hazelnut ice cream. What I wouldn't give for some good steak right now...
Back home, my favorite snack was pickled walnuts. Here, the pickled acorns are amazing!
It's been really tough trying new foods here because almost everything conflicts with my nut allergies.
Where I grew up, walnuts were considered a delicacy. Now that I'm here, I eat like a king!
My buddy tells me of some nearby smoothie bar that has a drink made from the extract of a 'rare green oval nut.' She said it tastes like nothing she's had back in human space, but I don't buy her story for a second.
If it weren't for the human settlements that decided to catch fish, I'd be stuck having to eat nuts and these really long carrot... turnip... things.
Hai Tech is incredible compared to ours. Every time I add a ship to my fleet, I always make a trip up here to stock up on Hai tech.
Have you tried out one of those Hai anti-missile systems? They'll waste any missile in human space.
Can you believe these Hai? They're light-years ahead of us, right under our noses.
Have you visited the Quarg ringworld here in Hai space? It's a humbling sight. There's probably more Quarg in there than there are humans anywhere. Makes you feel pretty insignificant.
Did you see the stuff they sell on Icelake? Hai technology is amazing.
I met some young Hai pilots. It sounds like they start out as poor as we do.
I sold my entire stock of food from human space at this port. I guess even Hai get tired of nuts.
Some Hai were protesting the work week. They want to work only 32 hours a week instead of 40. I used to work 70 hours a week for the Syndicate!
If I had known there was such high demand for human-made products around here, I would've started making trips years ago!
One day I'll finally retire from my life as a merchant, and when that happens I know no better place than in Hai space.
Plenty of businessmen come by curious of what I have in my hold, but I'll never tell them about my stash of industrial-sized shampoo bottles that I bring in on each visit to Hai space.
Scientist
Engineer
A while back, my Hai research partner was nearing a breakthrough, and then she vanished. I wonder where she went?
It's amazing how effective Hai fertilizer has become. If we had that technology, hunger would be a thing of the past.
Hai can terraform planets a hundred times faster than we can. I wonder why they didn't do that at Darkwaste?
Hai have the most amazing holographic technology. One of them put on a backpack holoprojector. When he turned it on, he looked like an elephant. The legs and tail even tracked his movements! I wonder if they can mimic humans too?
The Hai have an amazing grasp of quantum chromodynamics. It's why their shield generators are so effective.
It's crazy to think how much human technology would improve if we knew even just a bit of what they've figured out in Hai space.
Such a shame that so much of the technology development to the north of Hai space is done for pointless warring. If only they put it to better use.
My little daughter loved her stuffed bear back in human space, but now she wants to hug every Hai she sees instead.
These Hai are so fluffy! I want to hug one every time I see them!
I saw the Hai-human fusion band Nuclear Martini playing on Luna. Nobody realized the hairy drummer was really a Hai in disguise.
I saw a Hai wearing the cutest bonnet the other day. When I get back to human space, I'm definitely getting a pet squirrel.
Do you see that Hai woman carrying her baby? Doesn't it look like a long-tailed teddy-bear? The Hai are so cute.
Do you ever wonder what the Hai would think if they saw an actual squirrel? Do they even know that squirrels exist? Are squirrels just miniature versions of the Hai? I'm so lost.
I always felt so rejected working as a servant on Shangri-la. Ever since I hitched a ride with a hippy who wanted to visit a 'land with giant squirrels' and ended up in Hai space, everyone around me has made me feel like I'm worth something.
I bet if I bought a giant squirrel costume I could make my Hai friends think I was a complete stranger. They'd probably get a kick out of that.
A traveling theater group passed through here a few days ago. They performed an adorable scene about a merchant captain who gives up his job and settles down with his family on Icelake.
I've been thinking about writing a book about the experiences that I've had visiting here. People will probably think it's a fictional story, though.
Hai civilian
Hai tour guide
Humans are always so curious when they discover our space past the wormhole. It is truly our pleasure to welcome them all and be amongst them.
The little bit of hair that humans have on the top of their head is so cute. I love how many ways they style it.
Did you see the recent movie about the young human and Hai that had fallen in love? It brought me much joy and sadness at the same time.
I played chess for the first time last week. I didn't follow what my friends were saying about 'kings' and 'bishops' and 'pawns,' but it seemed like they enjoyed the time.
I had a very nice dream about a human captain who took me on a journey outside Hai space. When I woke up on this morning, I met a kind man who was planning a trip to his homeland and when I asked, he said I could come with him. I think it is such a funny coincidence.
My children are so excited when they see humans arrive in ships. To their knowledge, these humans must come from distant and wondrous lands beyond their imagination.
Is it common practice for humans to shave all of the fur off their bodies? All I have ever seen are humans with very smooth and bald skin.
I love participating in the festivities and traditions that humans bring with them into Hai space. They are so diverse and interesting!
Store owner
Small business owner
Hair stylist
Barber
Restaurant owner
Fruit salesperson
For whatever reason,
Surprisingly,
Believe it or not,
Incredibly,
Beyond all of my expectations,
migrating to Hai space
moving to Hai space
moving my business here from Mars
has caused my revenue to increase two-fold!
has drastically boosted profits!
has revived my dying profits!
has skyrocketed my earnings in just months!
 The Hai-human market potential here is insane.
 I'm ecstatic about it.
Hai captain
Hai pilot
Hai merchant
I overheard some very loud music in the spaceport some time ago. Does all human music sound like that?
I can't believe There Might Be Riots really came back! I've been waiting since last time they were here.
After that band stopped through here a while ago, the spaceport has been playing their music around the clock. It's making me feel crazy!
All of the There Might Be Riots merchandise sold out immediately after they opened the shop. It isn't fair!
Human citizen
Human pilot
I've been following There Might Be Riots on tour for ages now, and somehow I ended up on this funky planet with big squirrels.
When I heard news that There Might Be Riots was coming to Hai space, I paid for some super expensive tickets to go see them. In the end I missed them, because I ended up on Heartvalley instead!
I thought I'd escaped that wretched music the kids were listening to when I came here, but it seems like it's been following me all this time!
Don't go too far north up here. The Hai have their own pirates, and they're much more powerful than anything we're used to in human space.
I took a shortcut through Wah Ki with six ships. Just two seconds later, BAM! half my fleet is dust.
These Hai are so creepy. What are they hiding? I can't wait to get back to human space.
The Hai don't like my ship's armory of laser rifles, but I was once boarded by a pirate crew and I'm never letting that happen again! If some overgrown squirrel is going to take away my rifle, it'll have to be from my cold dead hands!
I hope nobody is smuggling Hai technology out of here. I don't want to think about what would happen if the pirates got their hands on this stuff.
The Hai will pay you to rush cargo to human space and back. Don't die trying.
I really want to go somewhere else other than here, but I feel like I'm sandwiched between the Hai to the north and the pirates past the wormhole.
If one were to, I don't know, secretly snag a lock of fur from a Hai in order to have a private genetic analysis done on it to prove that they're really just intelligent deformed bears, that wouldn't be too crazy, right?
Be careful should you choose to fly up north. Too many human captains who don't know any better become victims to those Hai seeking great trouble.
It would be smart to follow trade routes that only visit Hai and human space. One would not wish to experience the business of our northern brethren.
Seeing so many human ships come by with such extensive weaponry feels very reminiscent of past times, unfortunately.
Rations are very often sent to those starving to the north of here, but such actions are almost never met with similar kindness. Take such a task very carefully.
I feel so terrible for the many humans that attempt to reach our worlds and are destroyed by the Unfettered humans that block their passage.
Where I lived in human space, pirates kidnapped dozens of people a month. Here there are no pirates, and people rarely disappear.
One of my scientist friends told me the Hai can make wearable holographic projectors. I wonder if they're using those to hide in human space?
Hai scientists that live near me chartered a flight to Allhome, but it got lost and ended up all the way on Canyon. Some people have the worst sense of direction.
Living here rather than back on Prime has its pros and cons. I don't have to worry about pirates showing up anymore, but now I can't find a single store that sells the latest hologame consoles that I'm used to!
Merchant pilot
I've been stranded here for ages waiting for the right parts to fix my ship. Finally, I don't have to stay at that dank and musty hotel.
I was weighing the need for Hai technology on my ship due to their high prices. Thankfully I've been able to outfit it with human tech so I don't have to pay such great amounts!
I had a good thing going before this outfitter showed up. I could transport human ship parts before there was any competition at all. Now my services are practically useless!
You mean to tell me the war back home is over? I can finally leave? Hopefully I'll be able to restock on ammo so my journey through the north isn't so rough this time.
Businessperson
Professional investor
Retiree
None of the economic models that I've run can explain why the walnut market never stops growing. Sure they're pretty popular, but this has to be a bubble, right? Right?!
I've noticed a rise in the number of human cuisine-focused establishment in this area. Hopefully a sizable investment in food imports could help my portfolio recover.
I think I can coast for a while off my Darkmetal mine investments; they never seem to fail me. Maybe I can even get that crazy Hai motorcycle I've been eyeing up soon.
It seems that no amount of persuasion can make merchants fly through the north just to get to Hai space. Probably doesn't help that the promise of 'large squirrel customers' isn't very believable.
Reformed pirate
I used to rob people for a living, and I'd be in jail now if I stayed in human space. Here, they've given me a job, and I've been sober for six weeks. This has really turned my life around.
I lived on Freedom before I came here, and I could get space weed, death sticks, stardust, and toad juice any time of day or night. Here, the best I can find is spicy acorns.
I used to be a slave on a pirate ship. My fool of a captain decided to attack Hai space. The Hai freed me, and now I work in one of their factories.
I tried smuggling some bad blue to Hai space, but they caught me right away. I don't know what scanners they use in those Hai ships, but it's a lot more effective than the Navy's toys.
If you think the Hai are weak-willed fur-balls, try watching one of their fencing matches. I've never seen a human move as fast as those Hai.
I always said I'd get out of piracy one day, but I know the navy would lock me up for sure. Here in Hai space, I've made a new start.
Being in Hai space has taught me to be a better person.
Some of my friends abuse the Hai's kindness. After all they've done for me, I'd never do that.
Back home, I had to rob people just to get enough money for food. Here I never go hungry.
Don't judge me. You have no idea what I had to go through before I got here.
I haven't stabbed anyone in months. This is an easier life.
Hai are so forgiving here. I got into a fight with one and instead of pressing charges, he had a long talk with me about my choices in life.
I always said I'd rethink my life, and now I have. I'm a farmer, not a killer.
I used to hate myself for all the terrible crimes I did in human space. Here, the Hai have given me a fresh start.
You have to re-invent yourself sometimes. I used to be a killer on a pirate ship, now I'm a canner in a Hai factory.
I hope nobody is smuggling Hai technology out of here. I don't want to think about what would happen if the pirates got their hands on that stuff.
Holographic advertisement
For cooking that tastes like home when you couldn't be further from it, visit Galileo's Soul Food on Icelake Summit.
Tired of the usual Hai lifestyle? Take a trip to Gravitas Wonderland on the unique moon of Skyfarm: where you and the whole family can see strange and wacky Hai plants, interact with incredible robotic spider drones, and have a blast in our low-gravity designed Fun Zone!
Plan a visit to the tropical Aqualiana Resort on Greenbloom where you can experience relaxing ocean-side views, exciting rainforest expeditions, and gourmet human cooking from professional chefs of the Paradise Worlds.
Too busy traveling to carry around all of your belongings? Moebert's Storage Solutions has locations on each Hai planet, with rapid transportation between each location at your request! Never be without your material possessions with our solutions.
Matthias' Sky Shuttles is the perfect service for anyone making trips to, from, and within Hai space. Fly 'Hai' into the sky with Matthias' Sky Shuttles!
Are regular tree nuts too normal and bland? Ibrahim's Exotic Nut Shack fulfills all your many desires for exciting, flavorful nut varieties.
Come to relax inside the many tranquil hot springs of Mirrorlake by visiting the great paradise of Freezewarm Resort & Spa.
Professional full-body fur stylists are available for hire at the nearby Eliana's Styling Center! Acquire a new and fashionable look, or even dye your fur coloring!
The Hai Tourism Department recommends visiting Frostmark very soon, while the warm and rainy summer experience is still taking place!
If you crave bizarre cuisine from beyond the wormhole, you must try the food at Duality Diner, featuring human chef Dibani Wilczek and her excellent dishes like 'broccoli,' 'oranges,' and 'cereal'!
Unfettered fighter
Unfettered youth
Unfettered warlord
Hai youth
Hai warlord
A Hai looks at you and shouts something in their language. You get the impression that it isn't pleasant.
You pass by a Hai with a false tail. You try not to stare as you walk past.
At a booth, you see a Hai selling stolen ship weaponry for outrageous prices.
At a booth, you see a Hai selling various types of unpleasant-smelling substances. Judging by the effects it has on those who consume them, you guess that they're some type of drug.
Group of Unfettered
Group of Hai
Group of youth
You see a group of Hai confront another. They shout at each other and bring out weapons, before backing off.
You see a group of Hai confront another. They shout and bring out weapons, before lunging at each other. You walk away before they notice you.
You hear yelling in the Hai language. When you turn around, you see that two Hai are facing off against each other, as onlookers egg them on. You turn away before it gets ugly.
A group of small Hai children run around playing some sort of game. More concerning, however, is the fact that they are carrying weapons while doing so.
A group of Hai are camped around a bonfire just outside the spaceport. They sing songs and dance around the fire in an energetic, almost maniacal way.
How did you get here? You should've been blasted to bits by our ships.
I came here because this is the only place in the galaxy where I feel wanted.
Weak human. Why do you dare to come to the land of the true Hai?
Fettered Hai are soft and weak-willed. They care not for true struggle or challenge.
You call me 'cute' and I'll run you through with a machete.
I seek challenge, and what greater challenge is there than to oppose the Drak, those with the power of gods?
Sometimes I miss my family and friends back home, but then I remember that here I am a respected warrior. Back there I was a slave to the Drak.
Our ships can beat anything you stupid monkeys can make.
This sure beats being a factory worker.
Without change, a civilization will decay and fall. This will happen to the Fettered Hai, as it has happened to countless empires throughout history.
What are you looking at, monkey?
I can take on a human like you any day.
You looking for a fight, monkey?
Last week we plundered a human ship that was stupid enough to come up here. Who knows, maybe you'll be next.
We just plundered a merchant convoy that was loaded with food. We'll feast well tonight.
At first I thought that joining the Unfettered would be fun. Now I can't go back or my crewmembers will beat me.
I feel like the only Hai on this planet who regrets joining the Unfettered.
I want to go home.
I don't know why the Fettered Hai keep giving us tribute. To be honest with you, I don't think we're much of a threat.
My captain calls the food shipments we get from the Fettered 'tribute,' but anyone can see it's charity to keep us from starving.
We shall conquer the worlds to the north as is our right. It is inevitable that the strong shall defeat the weak.
I have fought with the stupid birds to the north. They have no knowledge of proper battle. Our war with them will be swift.
Those overgrown birds have fantastic weaponry, yet they are too cowardly to use it.
I wonder why the birds do not simply fight back. Their weapons are clearly capable of doing so.
I wish I could get my hands on some of that bird tech.
The bird worlds are pristine! We have won a great prize in our battle against the stupid birds.
The true Hai will no longer be confined in their Drak-imposed cage.
I'll see great glory in fighting the weak-willed birds.
The worlds up north are nothing like the ones we were confined to. On the bird worlds, the air is clean and the water is as clear as glass.
The aliens to the north call themselves the Wanderers. Overgrown birds is more like it.
I had to shoot down a surrendering Wanderer ship when my captain decided to invade their space. It was small, and didn't pose a threat, but my captain made me do it anyways. I don't know if I can take this anymore.
The birds hardly try to fight back. It makes me wonder if they want us to conquer their planets.
I don't think it's right that we attack those that have surrendered. What honor is there in killing civilians?
I came here to do battle with warriors, not with merchants and cowardly birds.
What challenge is there in killing the weak? I desire to battle with those who are worthy.
What we're doing up north isn't right, but if I try to speak against it, others call me 'coward' and tell me to ship myself home.
I was held prisoner on a Wanderer world. They fed me and took care of me. The only thing they asked me to do in return was to teach them the Hai language. If it were the other way around, I'd be dead.
I was held prisoner on a Wanderer world. They said that we were welcome to take their planets, if it was their fate. It must be a trap.
I was held prisoner on a Wanderer world. Even though I attacked them, they were so kind to me. I don't want to fight them anymore, I'd feel too guilty.
I was held prisoner by the aliens up north. They call themselves the Wanderers, but everyone here just calls them 'birds.'
This planet is populated by a hostile alien species that resembles giant, intelligent squirrels. Do you want to approach one of them?
	(Not now, it's too risky.)
	You catch the eye of one of the alien dock workers and it walks over. "Ah," it says, "the monkey is curious. The monkey has never been face to face with a true Hai before?"
	"Hai? Is that what you call yourselves?"
	"What do you mean, 'true Hai'?"
	"Why did you shoot at me? Are you at war?"
The Hai here appear to be at war with the rest of their species. Do you want to approach one of them and ask why?
	You catch the eye of one of the Hai dock workers and it walks over. "Ah," it says, "the monkey is curious. The monkey has never been face to face with a true Hai before?"
	"No, I've encountered many of your brethren south of here."
	"Why are you at war with everyone else?"
	It hisses. "They are not true Hai. We are Hai. The unaltered. We were masters of a hundred worlds before human monkeys had learned the use of thumbs."
	"It means that we are unaltered, Hai as Hai were first born to be. Hai the conquerors. We were masters of a hundred worlds before human monkeys had learned the use of thumbs."
	"We are Hai. Hai the conquerors. We were masters of a hundred worlds before human monkeys had learned the use of thumbs."
	"We fight to defend ourselves from extinction," it says.
	"Extinction?" you ask. "Do you mean that there are no other Hai?"
	"We are all that is left of the original Hai," it says. "Unaltered. The conquerors. We were masters of a hundred worlds before human monkeys had learned the use of thumbs."
	"Extinction?" you ask. "Do you mean that you are not the same species as the other Hai?"
	"Indeed," it says. "We are all that is left of the original Hai. Unaltered. The conquerors. We were masters of a hundred worlds before human monkeys had learned the use of thumbs."
	"Where was your territory? Why have I never heard of you before?"
	"What do you mean, the Hai were altered?"
	"This is our story," it says. "Once, many worlds beyond wormhole were ours. Once, hundred thousand years now gone. We needed more worlds. A species that does not expand becomes like brackish water, like stunted tree. But dragonfolk in the south had created hyperdrive, and human monkeys had begun banging rocks together in what the Drak said was very intelligent fashion. So we were forbidden from taking more worlds."
	"'Dragonfolk?'" you ask. "I've never heard of them."
	"Sheragi," it says, "they are extinct. Only their dumb ancestors survive, just as monkeys will outlast the thinking humans."
	"'Dragonfolk?'" you ask. "Do you mean the Sheragi?"
	"Impressive," it replies, "the monkey knows of Sheragi. We outlived them all. Funny that only their dumb ancestors survive, just as monkeys will outlast the thinking humans."
	"How were you altered?" you ask.
	It says, "We Hai fought Sheragi and took worlds that Drak said belonged to them, worlds that Sheragi had not yet even discovered. Drak retaliated. On all Hai worlds, Drak ships appeared in orbit. Sickness swept each planet: quick fever, strange feeling of frailness, like you are brittle bones with mouth full of dirt. Victims left alive, but all ambition gone, no desire but to die of comfortable old age."
	"Did you try to resist the Drak?"
	"How do you know this, if it happened a hundred thousand years ago?"
	"Silly monkey," it says, "none can resist. They are strong. Their will prevails. And their will is for the galaxy to be a zoo, little remnants of each species all in separate cages. For now they let humans run free so humans will grow in knowledge, but soon they will fashion a cage for humans too."
	"All Hai know. The story is passed down. Others tell an altered version, where the way of peace was choice and not an inflicted wound, but some in each generation learn truth, and join us here."
	"That is a frightening story. Thank you for taking the time to speak with me."
	"Is there anything I can do to help you?"
	"If you are ever willing to sell us a jump drive," it says, "we will richly reward you. And if you discover the secret of how we can construct our own jump drives and escape from this prison, bring it to us and you will live as a god among us."
	"I'm sorry, I don't know the secret of the jump drive. No human being does."
	"If I ever have an extra jump drive to sell, I will bring it to you."
	"Then leave us alone," it says, and it walks off.
	"Bring us a jump drive," it says, "and we will count you among our friends. Bring us more, and we may even consider you worthy of a share of the plunder, when we take back what is ours."
The "Unfettered" are a faction within the Hai species who are not as peaceful as the rest, and are normally not friendly toward humans. They claim that long ago the Drak altered the Hai to make them docile and peaceful, and that the Unfettered are descendants of those Hai who avoided undergoing that alteration. They are seeking jump drives so that they can escape the "prison" they are now stuck in: a few deteriorating worlds on the far northern edge of Hai space.
The Unfettered Hai say that a dragon-like species called the "Sheragi" who are long extinct used to live in human space, back when much of what is now human territory was occupied by the Hai.
More Jump Drives
The Unfettered Hai have promised you rich rewards if you bring them more jump drives.
The Unfettered have clearly noticed that you have a jump drive installed; a large crowd of them has gathered around your ship. Do you want to talk with them, and perhaps arrange a sale of your jump drive?
	As soon as you approach the crowd, one of them steps forward and says, "One million credits, and the friendship of the true Hai people. This is our offer, for the jump drive."
	"Sure, I will accept that deal."
	"Can you offer me more than that?"
	"How will my ship leave here without my jump drive?"
	"We will give you a hyperdrive in its place," it says, "and you will be counted as our friend, so you will not need to leave here quickly, or under threat of violence." You can't help but wonder if they will try to take your ship by force if you do not agree to the deal.
	"Okay, I accept your generous offer."
	"Sorry, but if I give you this jump drive, I will lose my ability to capture more of them. Be patient, and I will bring you several of them when I am able."
	It ponders this for a while, and says, "Very well. Our offer stands, whenever you choose to return." They allow you to return to your ship peacefully.
	"Do not underestimate the value of our friendship," it says. "Soon we will become powerful once more, with many fruitful worlds under our control, and when that day comes you will benefit greatly from being our ally."
	"Okay, as long as you give me a hyperdrive to take its place, I'll give you my jump drive."
	The Unfettered engineers quickly and carefully remove your jump drive and replace it with an ordinary hyperdrive. You sincerely hope that you are not making a mistake by giving them this new technology. "Remember," one of them says as it hands you your payment, "when you acquire more jump drives, return here with them and we will give you further rewards. Until then, may fortune favor you, human friend."
The Unfettered Hai have promised you rich rewards, and more information about their plans, if you bring them more jump drives.
As before, when you land on this Unfettered world with a jump drive, a large crowd gathers around your ship. Clearly they are hoping that once again you will arrange a sale. Do you want to bargain with them?
	When you approach the crowd, one of them says, "Greetings, human friend. We have made you known to all our brothers and sisters as one of the few creatures who have chosen to help the true Hai to gain their freedom. If you give us another jump drive, we will pay you another million credits, and make you one of our emissaries to collect the payments with which our frail brothers seek to buy peace. Will you accept this exchange?"
	"Sorry, I need this jump drive right now, but I will come back later and sell it to you."
	"Yes, I will sell you my jump drive."
	Once again, they swap your jump drive for a hyperdrive, and pay you far more than you could sell a jump drive for anywhere else. "We will tell the other true Hai to offer you jobs in our job boards," they tell you, "and remember that we need still more jump drives."
	"Then I will find more, and bring them to you."
	"Can you tell me what you are using them for?"
	"Not yet. If you further prove your friendship, perhaps we will." You assure them that you will continue to do your best to assist them.
You have another jump drive, and the Unfettered will certainly be willing to pay you well for it. They also hinted that they might be willing to give you more information about what they plan to use the jump drives for. Do you want to sell them another drive?
	You meet up with some local Unfettered leaders, and they again pay you a million credits and arrange for your jump drive to be swapped out of your ship. "If you bring more, we will continue to pay you," they say.
	"Can you tell me what you are using the jump drives for?"
	"Thank you, I will certainly bring more of them when I am able."
	After a brief and hushed discussion in their own language, one of the leaders says, "You have proven your worth, so we will share our secret. The Hai once owned many worlds on the galactic fringe, a territory we can only visit using the jump drive. Those worlds are fruitful and nearly uninhabited. We will reclaim them as our own, and there will be food there to feed the Unfettered for many thousands of years to come."
	"Is there any other way I can help you to reclaim those worlds?"
	"'Nearly uninhabited?' You mean another species inhabits some of those worlds now?"
	You suspect that they are talking about the territory that is now inhabited by the Wanderers.
	"Are you at war with the Wanderers? Can I help you to reclaim your territory?"
	"What are you going to do to the species that owns those worlds right now?"
	"Your help may indeed be beneficial to us," says the leader. "I will tell the others to contact you if they have any particular missions you can undertake."
	"I look forward to hearing from them."
	"What do you plan to do to the species that inhabits those worlds now?"
	"Those worlds are now held by a species of scavengers, who feast on the ruin of proud civilizations. Our scouts tell us that these carrion-feeders have wiped away nearly every Hai artifact, melting down our cities to make metal for their ships and factories, and hiding the scars of our wars beneath newly planted forests. They are an old and strong species, but few in number, and those worlds are ours by right."
	You try to press them for more information, but they tell you nothing useful, aside from promising you that they will seek out your help when it is time to reclaim their territory.
	"If you want to provide us with more jump drives, visit the job board from now on," says the leader. "We will have warriors ready to receive them from you for the usual pay."
The Unfettered are starting to know you by reputation for bringing jump drives to them. This time, one of them<hood> - an engineer, judging by the writing pad and equipment they have - is waiting for you at your hatch.
	Maybe they mean to trade something other than money with you. Do you want to bargain for another drive with them?
	They probably mean to offer the same deal of exchanging jump drives for weapons as before. Do you want to try and see if you can prove yourself worthy this time, and bargain for a jump drive?
	As soon as you set foot on the world the supposed engineer drops her equipment and throws a blade at you just like before - it seems that she does not want to waste time with you anymore.
unfettered: blade rodeo
	You exit your ship, but before you can even reach the engineer, another Unfettered shouts to attract your attention and then throws a blade at you, without any other warning or ceremony.
	You exit your ship and immediately the engineer starts to lead you to the outfitter. "We have weapons to show you for your assistance in providing us with jump drives. For now you will only be allowed to trade for the one, but if you continue to provide assistance to us, you may prove yourself worthy to access the others." They never stop to ask if you are actually interested in new weapons.
	(Follow them.)
	"I'm not really interested in Hai weapons."
	(Leave and come back another time.)
unfettered: jd to sell
	"How rude. You better hope there will be someone else to guide you, next time!" Says the engineer as you walk off and return to your ship.
	"These are not standard Hai weapons, Captain, trust me. Also, it would be ill-advised to judge before seeing them, would it not?"
	They lead you through the usual outfitter but then go to an area you have never noticed before, probably because you were not meant to. As you are about to pass through what you assume to be a security check, an Unfettered throws a blade at your face!
	You recognize the same Unfettered from last time; she must fancy throwing blades at people.
	(Try to grab it.)
	(Try to dodge it.)
	(Leap to the side and use my own weapon.)
	(Flee.)
	You leap to the side, grabbing your own weapon just in time to threaten the Unfettered that threw the blade at you. Seeming a bit surprised by your unconventional tactics, they lower their own weapon. "Well done! In truth, there is no higher honor than surviving on the field of battle, because only then can you bring loot back to those who need it! A tactic is only good if you can find and execute it quickly enough to give you an edge, which you did.<learned> I am Desneeparu, and it is my pleasure to meet you, Captain."
	You manage to grab the weapon, just in time to deflect an incoming attack from the same Unfettered. They duel with you for what feels like an eternity. At first you are astonished by the fact you have managed to survive this long, but you soon realize that, as you have not managed to land a single successful blow, this must be some kind of deliberate test.
	Then, suddenly, you can feel the pace of your opponent change; the game is over. They strike a masterful blow that disarms you with ease before smiling and lowering their weapon. "It looks like you know what to do with a blade!<learned> I am Desneeparu, and it is a pleasure to meet you, Captain <last>!" she exclaims, before laughing at your surprised face. You realize she must have been toying with you from the beginning, but, nevertheless, she seems satisfied by your performance.
	She does some kind of salute with her fist before leaving. "I must go now. I hope you will find the weapon you need, Captain."
	<The engineer> proceeds to take you underground to what looks like a very basic weapon testing range. They explain, "We prefer to do most of our testing on the field of battle. Here we only make sure the weapon actually fires before Unfettered captains can get their hands on it." You keep walking until you enter the outfitter section of the facility, where you notice the items on display are much more advanced than anything you have seen available on the surface: so much so it could almost pass for a 'normal' Hai outfitter, were it not for the overcharged, oppressive feel of the testing grounds.
	"Welcome to the advanced section of the outfitter, Captain! It is only for our most distinguished guests. Now that you have sold us multiple jump drives, I can tell you that we offer something much more valuable than money. For now, I can only offer you the mighty Tripulse Shredder, but eventually we will give you access to all kinds of weapons. Two Tripulse Shredders and our sympathy for one jump drive is the deal I propose," they say, presenting the weapons to you. Now that you can take a closer look, you notice these weapons seem fairly similar to other Hai weaponry, but they are enhanced in one way or another. Alongside the Tripulses you can spot what look like a very small Ion Cannon and an Ion Cannon mounted turret.
	"Tell me more about those Tripulse Shredders I can buy."
	"I'll settle for the tripulse, then."
	"Can you tell me more about that small ionic weapon?"
	"I'd like to learn about this... ion cannon mounted on a turret?"
	"I would just prefer the money, actually."
	"Ah, the Blaster. It is favored by many Shield Beetle captains, because it can easily help them turn the tide of battle without needing to dedicate too much weapon space to it. Especially considering its other effects, its damage potential is serviceable. While it is true that it does not do enough ion damage to properly disable a ship on its own, it is able to jam their weapons and will give you the upper hand in a long fight."
	"That is my preferred weapon out of all of them, by far. Unlike the Ion Cannon that is a hybrid weapon meant to damage the enemy from long range whilst applying a good deal of ionization, this one's role is mostly to disable enemy ships. Even a ship with many batteries will cower before this weapon! And due to its high range, small ships and even fighters will never bother you again!"
	"However, we only have these weapons in very limited quantities, and as such we cannot afford to give these to you yet. So, about my offer, have you made up your mind?"
	"Oh. Well, in that case, we will not bother you again with this weapon, or any other, Captain, here or in the job board."
	"Sounds good to me."
	"Wait, what was that weapon again?"
	"As you wish. Do remember that if you want to sell further jump drives to us for money you may go to the job board."
	"The Tripulse Shredder may seem crude, but it packs a punch! Its specialty is how it combines a lot of firepower in one gun slot, and, due to its burst nature, it's perfect for pilots who already use hit and run tactics. Some captains even say that a Sea Scorpion can take out a Shield Beetle when it uses four of them, if you know what you're doing, of course! As I said, I may offer you two of these in exchange for your jump drive."
	They order their crew to do the transfer and come to address you before leaving. "Do note that if you ever want more weapons, we will always be willing to trade them for jump drives in the job board. However, we can always offer money instead if that is of higher value to you. Of course, we can only do this exchange here on <origin>, given it is where these advanced weapons are produced and stocked."
unfettered: dodged the blade
	<as before (run)> manage to dodge the blade but are then left defenseless when the same Unfettered closes with another one and slashes down to strike. They stop at the last possible moment, dissatisfaction clear on their face.
	"So this is how you 'fight,' Captain? You hide? You dodge? You refuse to seize our weapons, so you will not have them."
unfettered: flee from the blade
	<as before (flee)> run away from the blade without any difficulty, but the Hai that threw it catches up to you in mere seconds and immobilizes you with their blade on your throat.
	"You disappoint me, Captain. In battle it is of great importance that you identify your advantages over the enemy and not show weakness by running, else they will come in for the kill. You have failed in both ways here. Never would you have been able to outrun me. All you did was show fear."
	"You really keep on disappointing me, Captain. At one time you tried to avoid a fight you could not flee from, and the other to dodge a weapon that was so readily presented to you? Maybe you truly are no warrior and let most of your subordinates do the dirty work."
	"I will not keep on teaching you the same lesson! You had your chance. We cannot accept one that does not learn from their mistakes. It seems that we cannot trust you with our most advanced weapons." She then leaves, visibly irritated.
	<leave> The engineer, who had watched the fight then explains, "Since you have failed the test we cannot give you access to our vault yet. Our weapons are only meant for the most capable of warriors. You will of course still be able to trade jump drives for money, but until you otherwise prove yourself, that is the extent of it."
	"This mistake is not permanent; I am sure she will happily forgive you, if you will only bring us more jump drives. Another engineer will be waiting for you at your hatch when that is the case."
	"In fact, your reputation for bringing us jump drives is so great she has no choice but to forgive you in the near future. Another engineer will be waiting for you at your hatch when that is the case."
This Hai has asked you to smuggle him out of Unfettered space and bring him to <destination>.
During the night, you hear a gentle scratching sound on your ship's main hatch. Do you investigate?
	You grab a flashlight and open the hatch, and find a juvenile Hai there, with a large satchel slung over his shoulder. "You are the <first> <last>, yes?" he says. You nod. He says, "Is it true what is written here?"
	In his hands he is holding a piece of foil paper. You recognize it as the wrapper from one of the food rations that you have been transporting to the Unfettered, the "tribute" that they demand from the peaceful Hai. But having never unwrapped one of the rations, you had not realized that there is writing on the inside, a few words in the angular alphabet of the Hai. The Unfettered youth sees your look of confusion, and translates the message. "It says, 'Hai-home is your home too. Rejoin your people.'"
	"I think it is true. The Hai who gave this tribute said they hoped the Unfettered would turn from violence and be reconciled with them."
	"I'm sorry, but I don't think they will ever let you live among them, if it is your nature to be prone to violence."
	You have little experience reading Hai emotion, but the youth seems crestfallen. "You are certain?" he asks.
	"I am certain. I can do nothing for you."
	"Perhaps you can come with me and find out, but don't get your hopes up."
	"Will you take me to Hai-home?" he asks. "You are able to be outside Unfettered places. Can I go with you?"
	"Yes, I will take you there."
	"Sorry, I can't risk angering the Unfettered by carrying a defector."
	Disappointed, the youth leaves. You hope you made the right choice.
	You show the youth to one of your bunk rooms, and tell him to stay hidden there until you reach Hai-home.
You look for the young Hai, but realize that he took a ride on one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
You need not have worried about the reception the Unfettered youth would receive here on Hai-home. Scarcely minutes after you hesitantly contact the Hai government, a happy crowd has gathered around your ship. When he steps out of the hatchway, he looks stunned at being welcomed so warmly. One of the Hai governors thanks you for transporting him, and pays you <payment>.
The Nullifier was one of the largest weapons the Builders ever developed, created specifically to be carried in battle by the Vareti. Although it does almost no damage to shields and hull, one shot is capable of disabling most kinds of reactors in a matter of seconds.
This laser beam was created by the Builders for use in asteroid mining. Unfortunately, they understood its effectiveness in combat only after it turned against them.
This turret-mounted version of the Ravager Beam is one of the strongest weapons the Ka'het possess.
The Builders initially created the Annihilator long ago, as a countermeasure to their newly discovered shield matrix. They kept developing it for centuries, with this being its final version.
The Builders mounted two Annihilators on this turret, making it highly efficient against enemy shields.
Eons ago, the Builders were attacked by alien ships which used weapons that ignored their hull and damaged their reactors. Although they never did recover any of these weapons, after years of research they managed to replicate their effects.
Most drones the Builders possessed were completely unarmed, making them very vulnerable to enemy attacks. Since installing weapons would have greatly reduced its cargo capacity, they instead decided to dissuade possible hijackers by developing these Emergency Deployers: they work by activating a series of reactions inside the ship's MHD generator and then ejecting it towards the enemy, resulting in a large scale detonation as soon as it hits something.
While the cooling on a typical ship only needs to worry about keeping the crew comfortable in certain areas, the entirety of a Ka'het ship needs to maintain a suitable temperature for the Het inside to survive.
This is the main cooler used by the Ka'het. Although energy intensive, it is very effective, capable of single-handedly cooling some Het.
The Builders never relied much on shield matrices, preferring instead to strengthen their hull. The reality of war, however, required that the Builders develop strong shield technology, leading to some Het vessels making extensive use of this module.
This shield generator is the apex of Ka'het shielding technology, a field that developed rapidly and out of necessity rather than gradually and perfected over long periods. Nevertheless, the Grand Restorer grants good protection for the largest Het ships, replacing the basic restorers used elsewhere.
	Unlike most generators, this restorer needs a few seconds to start working again once the ship's shields have been depleted.
The Builders originally created this magnetohydrodynamic generator as the Ka'mar main power source. Similarly to what happened with many Mar devices, it was later reused in the Het ships as a secondary energy generator, supplementing their integrated power systems when they proved to be unsatisfactory.
This tiny battery was developed for use by the Ka'mar drones as an emergency energy storage, in case their generators can't quite suffice for the high power demand of most Builder systems.
The Ka'het engines are peculiar in that they continuously draw large amounts of energy, but require no additional energy to activate: while this means that less power remains available for other subsystems, it is also somewhat more efficient than most types of propulsions, and generates only a tiny amount of heat.
While Ka'het vessels are already equipped with proper engines, most of them use a sustainer engine in addition to give the ship enough maneuverability to be useful in combat. Following the same design as its bigger cousins, the sustainer requires no power to function at the cost of constant energy consumption.
These nacelles used to comprise the entire engine block of a Telis'het. While their size is not impressive compared to other engines, if used in conjunction with a sustainer or two, they can be a powerful form of propulsion, combining both turning and thrusting engines in one.
This is the largest single engine the Builders ever built, made for the most massive ships they were in control of. Due to its sheer size, it isn't as modular as its smaller equivalents, but it is more efficient and powerful as a result.
This tiny engine was developed as the main propulsion of the Ka'mar drones, long before the Ka'het were created and their nacelle design standardized. Improvements over time allowed it to maintain a comparable efficiency to the larger models, although unlike those, it requires some energy to activate the engines in addition to the constant energy drain that all Builder-designed engines have.
The Maeri is the smallest Het ship created by the Builders' stations, a prime example of the genetic technology they once possessed. Its small size is compensated by the fact that it can hide its location from most types of sensors.
When the Builders designed the exoskeleton of the Telis, they came to the conclusion that it would have been impossible to make it resilient enough without compromising its agility and integrity. Instead, they focused heavily on improving their shield technology, giving the Telis many of their regenerators.
The Vareti was the strongest Het the Builders were able to complete, starting its mass production only a year before the beginning of the invasion. It relies on shield matrixes even more than its little brothers, using larger and more effective restorers that were developed alongside this project.
The Selii'mar was a common Builder mining drone, one of the few automated ships they ever produced. The Het stations still produce them, in order to harvest the materials they need to keep working.
The Mar were the last and most successful ships of the Builders in their attempts at creating automatic drones. Today only the Het stations are still aware of their blueprints, and keep producing the Faes'mar to transport the resources mined to the station's cargo bay.
The Fetri is a self replicating probe, built to harvest iridium away from the Graveyard and transport it back to the Builders.
Your ship slowly approaches the <origin>, now floating lifeless near you. As you move closer, you spot a massive hole in the hull of the ship, revealing what appears to be a large, slug-like being. While most of the ship's machinery doesn't seem to have received heavy damage, weapons fire must have hit the slug's vital organs, killing it, after which point the ship seems to have stopped working.
	You have no troubles docking with what seems to be its "exoskeleton," trying to decide what to do next. While the Ka'het is too different from a normal ship for you to command it, it's safe to say that you can now loot its outfits.
Do you want to ask the Remnant about the section of space south of the Ember Wastes, the Graveyard, and its inhabitants?
	(Not now.)
	You ask around more than a dozen people, but none of them seems to be aware of what you're talking about. Either the information is too confidential to be given to a stranger like you, or you didn't ask the right people.
	You ask around more than a dozen people, but none of them seems to be aware of what you're talking about. Perhaps you might have more luck asking Taely on Viminal.
Do you want to ask Taely about the section of space south of the Ember Wastes, the Graveyard, and its inhabitants?
	You find Taely inside one of the outer hangars of the shipyard, apparently teaching a small group of people how to make basic repairs on an Albatross. You sit on a bench waiting for her to finish her lesson, after which she walks over to you. "Hello, <first>!" she says. "Is there something I can help you with?"
	"I'm here because I need to ask you a few questions," you reply.
	As she sits near you, you start explaining to her the area you reached, including the weird alien ships that attacked you with weapons similar to the ones the Remnant possess, although this doesn't seem to be news for her. "We know of the existence of the Ka'het, the aliens you encountered, since we first reached the Ember Wastes. We found many of their shells within our planets, crashed there thousands, perhaps even tens of thousands of years before our arrival, but some of their outfits survived long enough for us to reverse engineer these advanced technologies."
	"Then," she continues, "a few hundred years ago, a scout fleet arrived in a system where some Ka'het were still alive. They attacked our fleet instantly with EMP Torpedoes that quickly disabled two Starlings. The Starlings couldn't recover quickly enough to survive, and the only remaining ship could do nothing but flee as soon as possible."
	"Which technology did you recover from the crashed Ka'het?"
	"Wait, why did you call them 'shells' and not ships?"
	"Have the Ka'het ever attacked the Remnant planets?"
	"Actually, we never met any living Ka'het in the Ember Waste at all. The shells we found had similar capabilities to the quantum keystone, meaning they could pass through the wormholes, so we don't know for sure why they remained in the Graveyard. Perhaps they aren't aware of their skills, or maybe they lost them over time."
	"Back then we found large numbers of their EMP Torpedoes, most of which were in nearly pristine condition; their internal mechanisms were also simple enough that we were able to reproduce them perfectly. We couldn't do the same with the other surviving systems in the shells, but their tech has been a source of inspiration for centuries."
	"You see, <first>," she says, "the Ka'het aren't normal spaceships. The debris we found were artificial exoskeletons, built around huge living beings; it's unlikely a species that big could have developed that sort of technology, so we presume someone must have created it for them. We call them the Builders.
	"After we lost the first scout ships in the Graveyard, the prefects decided that we should continue to scout the region but take necessary precautions. Thanks to those protocols, some of which are still applied today, we were able to extensively explore most of the Graveyard and decipher a good amount of the written language we found. There is still much we have yet to discover."
	You discuss the Graveyard with Taely for a while longer until one of the people she was talking to earlier comes closer and shows her something on a data pad. "I have to go now, Captain," she tells you. "Good luck."
The Ka'het are a species which live in the Graveyard, an area south of the Ember Waste. They are large lifeforms which can travel in space using artificial exoskeletons and will attack anyone on sight, even other Ka'het.
	Here the Ka'het attacks were limited to the inhabited settlements; had they also destroyed the mining bases and the unmanned vessels, Parii'het would have run out of supplies thousands of years ago.
	This planet appears to have been home to one of the largest Builder research centers, which focused on studying the anomaly in the system. Had they found out how to stabilize it and use it as a wormhole, perhaps their species would have survived and spread to the rest of the Ember Waste.
	The main purpose of Ceilia'sei was to act as some sort of anti-missile platform, but when the Ka'het invaded a second time, the station had no way to defend against their deadly Ravager Beams, and the station's defense systems were subsequently lost forever.
	This moon was also home for the second Ka'het wave, which, same as the first, refused to obey their creators. It had been terraformed to make it a more appealing place to live, but after their civilization collapsed the moon began to return to its natural state. When it reverted to its original sub-zero temperatures, the facilities stopped working, and the Ka'het production in this site came to an end.
	As it was designed to be crewed as minimally as possible, only a tiny fraction of Letis'sei station was inhabitable. The rest of the station was instead dedicated to advanced computing and targeting systems, most of which are still intact today.
	For most of the intervening millennia between the Builders' achievement of spaceflight and their extinction, Osaeli was the de facto capital of the Builders, a key part of their economy and society. The first Het station was constructed orbiting this planet's star with the purpose of protecting them from any external threat.
	Thanks to their earlier exploration efforts, this was where the Builders encountered the first lifeforms that evolved outside their home planet. While the climate was drastically different from that of the Builders' homeworld, the fruits the local flora produced were popular enough for Palarei to become a major farming planet.
	Parii'het was almost finished when the invasion broke out, and already capable of creating Ka'het. Thanks to the mining on Alix and the occasional asteroid mine operated by the Mar drones, most of the facilities are still fully operational to this day.
	As it was mainly used for fishing, the settlements on this planet were never as advanced as the ones on nearby worlds, so when the Ka'het arrived, there was basically nothing to stop them: after a few attacks, the planet was uninhabited again.
	This was the only Het station the Builders ever completed, orbiting Giribea. As the young Ka'heta reach their "Age of Assembly," strange, lanky machines start molding an exoskeleton onto their bodies right away. As the Ka'heta grow, their exoskeleton is expanded and various outfits are added, transforming them into living weapons.
	This was the Builder homeworld; both the place where their journey began and where it ended. After a dozen millennia of underpopulation, the Ka'het arrival forced them to withdraw from the planet entirely. As one of the few remaining planets capable of sustaining farming, this was their last stronghold, falling centuries after the invasion begun.
	Soon after the beginning the invasion, an attack on some sort of advanced nuclear facility started a meltdown; the fallout quickly spread across most of the planet, leaving all Builder settlements uninhabitable.
When you enter this suspiciously empty system, your attention is drawn to your ship's scanners. The proximity detection system is going off, suggesting that something sizable is close to your ship, although whatever it is you can't see it as you look out your cockpit.
	You turn your ship around and open the hatch of your cargo hold, catching the object. When you go to inspect it, you see a small, extremely dark piece of debris that almost looks to be covered in vantablack, but it doesn't resemble any alloy you've seen on a spaceship or station, bearing semblance to both a crystal and a metallic structure.
	In one particular corner you see that there is a small, barely recognizable tube, badly damaged but with a few intact wires creeping out. After tinkering a bit with the wires, you manage to connect the debris to your ship's secondary power systems. It barely uses any energy at all, but you can feel the air around it starting to get slightly colder.
	You unplug it and store the debris in a separate part of your ship. Maybe some alien species could tell you about it, if you were to bring it to them.
Do you want to show the Remnant the piece of debris you found in the abandoned, empty system, and ask them what they know about it?
	A group of Remnant researchers quickly come to your ship when you mention you've found an odd piece of technology, but look disappointed and some even frown when they see the debris, as you explain the system you found it and how it reacted to being fed some energy.
	"We've found many fragments like this one drifting in that system over the decades. It could maybe improve our cooling systems, but we could never begin to comprehend how it works," one of them says.
	They say they don't know any more than you do about the object, but ask that you share with them any information on how it works, should you find out.
Do you want to show the Hai the piece of debris you found in the abandoned, empty system, and ask them what they know about it?
	You ask around for a bit, and eventually are lead to a workshop where some Hai engineers and shipwrights are gathered.
	"Greetings, human friend! How may we help you?"
	You show them the piece of debris, and they observe it for a bit, but after just a few minutes of handling it they conclude they don't have the necessary equipment to analyze it.
	"Sorry, whatever it is that you've found, it is too advanced a technology for our systems," they say. You thank them for their time, and head back to your ship.
Do you want to show the members of the Coalition the piece of debris you found in the abandoned, empty system, and ask them what they know about it?
	After asking around, you're directed to a large Heliarch building, where several of them are standing guard, weapons in hand, while others are performing maintenance on a chunk of hull plating. Judging by its size, it may be a warehouse for their weapons and outfits. "Of assistance how may we be, kind visitor?" One of the agents asks.
	You show them the debris, and explain where you've found it. They are shocked when they see it, but don't attempt to perform any tests on it. "A piece of Quarg technology, this is!" they say, asking again for you to explain where exactly you found it, as they make sure to write it all down this time.
	They then say that they have experience with technology they managed to steal from the Quarg during their war, and that the debris is the remnant of a somewhat common component of Quarg equipment. They also note that what you've found has deteriorated much compared to what they have acquired for themselves, and that it most likely can't even reach a fraction of its optimal cooling output.
	You thank them for their time and the explanation, and head back to your ship.
Do you want to show the Quarg the piece of debris you found in the abandoned, empty system, and ask them what they know about it?
	Walking down the principal, alien-looking hall, you decide to stop one of the few Quarg you see there. "Hello, human. How may I be of service?" the Quarg says. You show it the piece of debris, and ask what it knows about it. It is momentarily stunned when you show the dark piece of technology, calmly taking it into its own hands after recovering. "A fragment of our ships, is what it is. A remnant of part of our equipment. Thank you for returning it to us."
	You continue by telling it about your travels in the section of the galaxy where you found the debris, and asking what it knows of the place and the hostiles that inhabit it.
	"Ah, you encountered the remains of the Builders. Millennia ago, they were a flourishing and thoughtful empire, but hostile contacts forced them to grow fearful and hawkish. Although they never did attack us, they always refrained from accepting our aid, and attempted to relocate a greater distance from us and our ringworld there, in worlds easier to maintain than ones they were closer to."
	"Who were these hostile contacts?"
	"What happened to the Builders?"
	"Long ago, few ships coming from a foreign species had reached that region of space, using some of the wormholes leading there. They belonged to a young race who foolishly decided to attack the Builders instead of learning from them. Their ships were stronger than any vessel the Builders possessed at the time, but were also few enough in number to be destroyed by the Builders."
	"What happened after that?"
	The Quarg stops for a few seconds before continuing, as if it was reflecting on something. "For many millennia they grew, developing brilliant pieces of technology. Then, compelled by their past experiences, they began creating weapons not only to defend themselves, but also to retaliate; these 'Ka'het', as they named them, turned on their creators shortly after they were complete.
	"For a few more centuries the Builders lasted, before falling under their very own hubris. Their space is still populated by the Ka'het they gave birth to through the immense facilities they assembled, a being that does not yet possess a vast intelligence." The Quarg bows, still holding on to the piece of debris, and seems to be preparing to walk away.
	"What happened to your ringworld in the Graveyard? Was it in the system I found that thing?"
	(Let the Quarg walk away.)
	For the briefest moment, you see patches of skin all over the Quarg's body radically shift from the usual gray to red and blue, some spots mixing into purple, and you could have sworn you saw some part of the iris on its eyes "open" very slightly.
	After coming back to normal, it ponders for a second, then says, "It was in that system, and it was lost in a war, millennia after the Builders had perished."
	It doesn't seem too inclined on answering any more questions, and swiftly walks away.
	After coming back to normal, it ponders for a second, then says, "It was in that system, and it was lost in our war with the despicable Pug. When we tried to resist them. By then, the Builders had been gone for millennia."
The Builders inhabited the Graveyard millennia ago, but have since become extinct. They developed some sort of weapon, called the "Ka'het," which stopped obeying their orders and rebelled against them.
According to the Quarg, the Ka'het were initially a weapon created by the Builders, which then rebelled and led them to extinction. Even in the millennia that passed, they are still being produced in the Graveyard.
As the jumping sequence comes to an end, you find yourself orbiting a small black hole, surrounded by nothing but countless asteroids and debris. Even more interesting is the fact that the asteroid belt appears to be populated by small spaceships, similar in appearance to the Ka'het that infest the nearby systems but at the same time unlike any of the types you had seen before. Perhaps the Remnant can tell you more about this system and its sudden appearance.
Visit <waypoints>
Bring Taely with you to visit the <waypoints> system before going to <destination>.
Do you want to look for Taely to tell her about the new system that appeared in the Graveyard?
	You aren't surprised to find Taely in the local shipyard, overseeing the welding of some kind of unmanned satellite. Though not familiar enough with Remnant technology to understand its function, you identify a large crystal placed near what you presume to be the front of the probe as a Quantum Key Stone, or at least a derivative of it.
	When Taely notices you walking towards her, she waves at you. "<first>! It has been a while. Were you looking for me?"
	"I have some news. A new black hole suddenly appeared near the Graveyard, the same way Ssil Vida did."
	"What's the purpose of that satellite?"
	"She is a beauty, is she not? The discovery of the star systems beyond Postverta spurred a large request for exploration probes, more than we've had in decades. This one was my own proposal: she is going to make precise LIDAR scans of the four planets most similar to the worlds we found alien settlements on, searching for relics and ancient artifacts! It is unbelievably exciting to see an idea that you came up with become reality right in front of you."
	She pauses to stare at the probe with pride.
	"Funny you mention Posverta," you say. "A new black hole has just appeared near the Graveyard, the same way Ssil Vida did."
	You try to explain the system and its inhabitants as best you can. Taely looks intrigued. "Can you show me what your ship recorded of that system?" she asks. After spending a few minutes checking your ship's registers, she appears even more astonished than before. "This is incredible! It opens so many questions. What if it was the Builders who built Ssil Vida? We thought they never left the Graveyard, but this could change everything. And look at the gravitational slipstreams: this system has no hyperlane connections, at least for the moment. We need to know more." She pauses for a second to think. "Come with me, <first>."
	You follow Taely into a large elevator at the other end of the building. After a short trip, you find yourself in a large underground hangar, full of oddly shaped dishes and complex pieces of machinery. "We use these old shelters to store the parts we do not need anymore. Sometimes they are still handy for replacing broken machinery, so instead of disassembling them we keep them here for a few years. And this," she says, pointing at an array of cylindrical objects, "is the reason we are here."
	"What is that?"
	"A bunch of rods?"
	"It is an old tracking and surveillance device, developed specifically for the Graveyard," she says. "It was supposed to track all Ka'het it could find and make detailed imagery of their actions, in order to find the patterns that they follow or ways to exploit their controls. The mission was a long-term one, so when an urgent project came up, resources were diverted away from it, leaving some sensors unused.
	"My plan is to install some in the <ship> and go to <waypoints> to find out more about the ships there. It needs to be calibrated precisely before use, but luckily for you, I was the person who developed the deployment procedures," she says with a smirk on her face. "Are you ready?"
	"Let's go!"
	"How did the attempt at tracking the Ka'het go?"
	"Sorry, but I can't help you this time. You're going to have to find somebody else."
	"Oh, the scanner is working perfectly. But the Ka'het seem to follow no pattern whatsoever, not even the most basic ones. I guess you could compare them to simple animals, searching for food and fighting each other for their territory. They seem to have some sort of "imprinting" towards the stations that breeds them, but other than that, they have not shown any other particular behavior yet."
	"Alright, let's mount the scanner!"
	Taely replies, "I will gather a team to install the scanning system. We should be done in around an hour." She leaves the warehouse carrying a scanner, leaving you to prepare your ship for the upcoming mission.
When you enter the system, Taely is already sitting at the scanner's control console. She starts counting loudly. "External deployment in three... two... one... trackers out. Initiating startup sequence." She begins typing commands on a keyboard. "This is going to take a while, <first>," she says, without taking her eyes off the screen. "It is not normally a one-person job."
	"I'll wait for you to finish in the cockpit."
	"I am afraid there is not. Give me, say, half an hour and I will have the results ready."
	Almost an hour passes, but Taely finally responds. "The scan is complete. The system is currently processing all the data it gathered into something usable; there's nothing we can do but wait." She starts staring out of the cockpit windows. "Black holes are such a wonderful phenomenon. They are so mysterious, and each one is peculiar in its own way, this one especially."
	"Did you find anything new on how this system appeared?"
	"Was this one already known to the Remnant?"
	"That is the oddest part; it was not. We knew about the existence of the stars beyond Postverta as they could be observed from our own systems; they just were not reachable with a jump drive. But, from what I can tell from these readings, Patir did not exist until a short time ago.
	"Do you have anything on why this system appeared?" you ask.
	"I only have theories for now, none of which can be confirmed. People more knowledgeable than me in the subject are examining the phenomena right now. But look at this," she says, opening a star map on a holographic projector. "This white dot is Postverta, and we are here. When Ssil Vida first appeared, it released a strong burst of ionizing radiation, and when we were able to calculate its velocity, we found it was going much faster than the speed of light. It is gradually slowing down, so it will not go much further, but exactly the same day that the energy burst was supposed to arrive here, Patir appeared! It would be an incredible coincidence if the two events were not connected.
	"We have even less information about how this system disappeared. If I may venture a guess, I would say that the black hole is involved. The Builders never seemed to possess the ability to make a system disappear, and we have seen in the past that some black holes can render any hyperlane they are connected to inaccessible given enough time. Perhaps a young, non-rotating black hole like this one can do even more. There is a part of me that thinks this system could disappear again any moment, but if anything that motivates me to find as much as we can about it in the time we have," she says with a wink.
	"Wait, are we in danger?"
	"How much will it take to finish processing the data?"
	"Oh, I was just letting my imagination fly. There are thousands of other explanations that are as good as mine, none of which include such a tragic ending. But we can ponder more on those explanations on the way back to <planet>."
	"It will take some time before the data is completely analyzed. We should return to <planet> before looking it over, as it should be done by then."
You've arrived at <planet>, but your mission is not complete! Make sure Taely and all the equipment passes through <waypoints>. If they are on an escort, you must wait for it to arrive at <waypoints> before you return to <planet>.
Upon your return to <planet>, Taely immediately begins browsing through several images on her console that were compiled by the sensors.
	"Look at these, <first>. What do you see?" The first image shows a ship like the others you've seen in Patir working on some kind of small structure. In the following pictures, presumably depicting different iterations of the same ship, the structure becomes gradually bigger and more complex until the last one, where a Ka'het-like slug is shown growing inside this shell.
	"The ships, the Fetri'sei, are Von Neumann probes," she says. "Self replicating spacecraft. Unlike the Ka'het, which we found to be unable to reproduce and can only be created in a factory, the Ka'sei can duplicate their own structure with the material harvested from the local asteroids. The process probably takes years, or more, but it is still an incredible achievement."
	"If they can duplicate themselves, why aren't there more Ka'sei?"
	"If the Builders were able to make self replicating spacecrafts, why aren't the Ka'het like that as well?"
	"If they were able to get to Patir, does this suggest they have jump drives?"
	"Why aren't they in other systems?"
	"I imagine the problem would be with their lifespan. The Ka'het can survive for a few hundred years once they become operational; these could potentially last for a much shorter time. Another important factor is that we do not know what happened here in the millennia the system was hidden. Perhaps the Ka'sei went into hibernation waiting for the system to appear again."
	Taely looks towards the console again. On the screen a tactical view of the Fetri'sei appears. "Well, consider that the Ka'het are true battleships, heavily shielded and always with their weapons ready. These are more akin to reconnaissance and mining probes. Their structure is extremely weak, and they do not have any weapons except the equipment necessary to mine asteroids. I imagine it would take decades for even just a Maeri'het to replicate itself.
	"There is also the tactical problem: forcing a Ka'het to spend such a long time building copies of itself makes them vulnerable to enemy attacks and unable to effectively fight back, making them ill-suited for the job."
	"If they can duplicate themselves, why aren't there more Ka'sei here?"
	"If they were able to get here, does this suggest they have Jump Drives?"
	"They do not have any drives on board, not even a hyperdrive. Limited to sub-light velocity, they would need hundreds of years to pass from one system to another, which is a testament to the Builders' patience. Most species we have encountered abandon any form of sub-light transportation between star systems immediately after developing hyperdrive technology. For all we know, the Ember Waste could have been visited by these Fetri'sei or some other Ka'sei, but they had to leave for some reason we are not aware of. The last Builder died almost 100,000 years ago - so long that having a clear idea of what happened is impossible.
	"What's the difference between Ka'sei and Fetri'sei?"
	"Well, there is no difference," Taely responds, "not in this case at least. The naming scheme the Builders used is a bit odd: we know that 'Ka,' in their language, has a meaning close to the one of 'group,' 'team,' and sometimes even 'ring,' although it can never be used without a name next to it. So we have 'group mar,' 'group het,' and so on. These are not limited to spaceships: the Ka'het, for example, includes both the biological spacecrafts around the Graveyard and the stations that constructs them, while until now we thought that the Ka'sei included only a handful of large scale construction projects. We know 'Fetri' to be a sort of spaceship sub-classification, but we are not aware of its exact meaning. So the Fetri'sei, or 'ship sei' are a part of the Ka'sei, or 'group sei.' To put it simply, it is similar to how all squares are rectangles, but not all rectangles are squares. It just so happens that everything in this system is classified as a Fetri'sei, so we can use either interchangeably.
	"I know someone who will want to see all this. Meet me in the spaceport when you have the chance."
	"I know someone who will want to see all this. You have met Dusk, correct?"
	You nod. "I have, but I believe he's busy at the moment."
	"That is unfortunate. You should show this to him as soon as he is available," Taely responds. "But I fear I now have to go back to my job now, Captain. I would love to continue the exploration with you, but there are more pressing issues I have to resolve at the moment. I will keep an eye on the activity in Patir, I promise."
Scanners in <system>
Make detailed scans of the asteroid Dusk indicated in the <system> system.
You'll need <capacity> available to carry short range scanners. Return here when you have enough free space.
You find Taely waiting for you in the spaceport alongside a young Remnant with a touchpad. They both wave as you approach.
	"Captain!" Taely says. "Let me introduce you to Dusk. He is a young researcher who specializes in xenoarchaeology and astrobiology. Dusk, this is <first>, the captain who I told you about earlier. Now I'll leave you two to your work, as I fear I have to go back to my job now. I would love to continue the exploration with you both, but there are more pressing issues I have to resolve at the moment. I will keep an eye on the activity in Patir, I promise. May the embers burn bright for you both."
	As Taely wanders off, you turn to Dusk. "Nice to meet you, Captain!" he says.
	"Dusk? Are names like that common?"
	"Pleased to meet you too, Dusk."
	"You mean names of the various phases of daylight? Mmm, I would not say they are common, but nor are they rare, either. Our ancestors devoted their lives, one way or another, to studying the stars and the everchanging light of the universe. It should not be surprising that their vocabulary should be so entwined in our culture.
You find Taely waiting for you in the spaceport alongside Dusk. They both wave as you approach.
	"Captain!" Taely says. "I believe you already know Dusk. Dusk, I think you should find this to be right in your area of interest. Now I'll leave you two to your work, as I fear I have to go back to my job now. I would love to continue the exploration with you both, but there are more pressing issues I have to resolve at the moment. I will keep an eye on the activity in Patir, I promise. May the embers burn bright for you both."
	As Taely wanders off, you turn to Dusk. "Nice to see you again, Captain!" he says.
Dusk is no longer busy. Do you want to contact him about Patir, the black hole system in the Graveyard that appeared out of nowhere?
	You contact Dusk, and he agrees to meet you in the cafeteria. When you spot him, he waves to you. "Nice to meet you again, Captain!" he says.
	"Good to see you too, Dusk."
	"Has Taely told you about what we found?"
	"Yes, a new system has appeared in the Graveyard. How exciting! Taely sent me the data as soon as she could.
	"I have found something interesting in the data Taely sent me, Captain." Dusk shows you a map of the system Patir with various lines drawn all over it. "This image shows the route followed by every Ka'sei the scanner was able to track. At first sight they do not seem to have much in common, right? However, upon closer examination, there is something consistent about almost every path: once in a while, every ship spends a few minutes on a single asteroid - one of the biggest in the entire asteroid belt.
	"However, this could have easily been just a coincidence; it takes a lot of effort to extract resources from asteroids that size, so maybe they were just combining their forces to harvest it. So, at this point I had an idea." The screen on the touchpad changes, now showing raw numbers separated on a spreadsheet. "The sensors you carried to Patir had various functions, one of which was a high power asteroid scanner. The asteroid in particular was shown to be extremely rich in a particular metal, iridium. There is more iridium in it than the whole of half a dozen Ember Waste systems, planets included. However, here is the odd part: the concentration of iridium on the asteroid when you jumped away was not lower than when the scanning begun, it was higher! For whatever reason, the Fetri'sei are depositing iridium on the asteroid."
	"Are you sure that it isn't just an error in the measurement?"
	"Why are they doing that?"
	"Well, it is a possibility; this instrumentation has not been tested in years. But if it is not, this could give us a lot of insight on the real purpose of these Ka'sei and why they are around that black hole. It is at least worth studying!
	"That is what we are going to find out together! The only way we can find insights on their real purpose is to study this asteroid and what the Ka'sei are doing there.
	"The plan is to take a short range high power scanner and map the entire asteroid to analyze the site where the Ka'sei are bringing the iridium. After you have made extensive scans of the sites I indicate to you, reach me back here on <origin> so that I can analyze the data. If everything goes well, you should be back here in a couple weeks. Now I have already directed the spaceport engineers to install the scanners on your ship. I almost can't wait to see what you find there!" Dusk is so excited that he leaves before you can respond.
After a brief scan of the system, your ship's computers identify the asteroid that Dusk talked about. Compared to the asteroids you are used to, this one is orders of magnitude bigger, almost the size of a small moon. Land on <planet> in order to get close enough for the short range scanner to analyze it.
You've arrived, but you realize your escort carrying the <commodity> has not yet entered the system! Better depart and wait for it.
Return to <destination> to show the results of your scans of the large asteroid in Patir to Dusk.
Your initial scans suggest that the asteroid is slowly rotating like a moon or planet. You set your ship on a polar orbit around it and activate the sensors that Dusk gave you, hopefully to find some answers to all the questions raised by Patir's mysterious appearance.
	You start your exploration from the dark side of the asteroid, and from the little you can see, its surface appears to be completely covered in regolith of little importance. But soon after passing the terminator, you see an extremely reflective patch near the horizon. As you get closer, it becomes clear that this is the storage of iridium that Dusk was talking about: an enormous solidified lake of the reflective metal extending for kilometers in every direction inside a gigantic hole the Ka'sei have dug in the terrain.
	In a few hours, you are able to check every site you were told to scan, but most of the surface still remains an unknown.
	(Continue my exploration of the asteroid.)
	(Leave and return to Aventine.)
	As you are preparing to jump away, an artificial structure near the edge of the iridium storage catches your eye, and you decide to bring your ship in closer.
	While you are setting up a new route to pass above as much terrain as possible, your eye is caught by an artificial structure near the edge of the iridium storage.
	The first thing you notice is an array of extremely tall pylons arranged into two parallel lines. When you approach to get a better angle, you discover a large cupola towering over the area. Although understanding its scale without a reference point is hard, you estimate it must be at least a kilometer in diameter.
	You wonder if you should get closer, but the Ka'sei may not take kindly to you approaching their structure.
	(Collect measurements at a safe distance.)
	(Go near the structure, regardless of the risk.)
	The data that Dusk's scanners will gather will not be perfect, but it is better than having to risk getting close to something you know so little about. After a few minutes, the scan completes, and you are ready to return to <planet>.
exploration interest
	You carefully position your ship above the structure and activate the sensors. As the scan proceeds, you monitor the position of the Ka'sei fleet. Some of the Fetri'sei nearest to you have stopped their standard activities and are standing by, perhaps observing your actions the same way you are observing theirs. Luckily, after a few minutes the sensors complete their analysis of the structure and you are ready to return to <planet> unmolested.
You've returned to <planet>, but you realize your escort carrying the <commodity> has not yet entered the system! Better depart and wait for it.
Near the landing area, you discuss with Dusk what you have found next to the iridium storage. "This is fantastic! It is so much more than I hoped to find with this expedition. Give me a few hours to analyze the data and meet me in the spaceport."
Visit the asteroid
Bring Dusk to <system> to visit the ancient Builder settlement.
You'll need <capacity> available so Dusk can join you on your mission. Return with the available space to continue.
You meet Dusk again in the cafeteria with his touchpad, as usual. "Thank you again for your help, <first>. There is a lot we can learn about the Builders with this discovery." He shows you a black and white image of a building inside a hemispherical dome. The complex appears to be made of interconnected cylinders, presumably habitation modules.
	"Oh, it is the scan you made of the Builder structure. Here, look: the external cupola is completely pressurized, which could give us insights about the biology of the Builders. The composition of the atmosphere on their planets is likely to have changed after so much time, and every manned station the Ka'het could reach was long destroyed. This is the first time we have the possibility to study the gases they could breathe without having the results compromised by millennia of biological activity. Inside the cupola there is also a large intact complex, which could give us more answers about all of this.
	"If you can bring me to the asteroid, I could be able use the controls and enter in the cupola to measure the composition of the atmosphere."
	"I'm ready to go."
	"Wait, are you saying that you can read the Builder language?"
	"Very approximately, but yes. We have been studying every piece of written language we could find from their cities, mostly inside sealed containers. It is very hard to understand full phrases or even what they mean at times, but we can reliably translate most of the common words and phrases, which will hopefully be enough for our mission."
You've arrived, but you realize your escort carrying Dusk has not yet entered the system! Better depart and wait for it.
First contact
After the tumultuous first contact, return to <destination> without hurting any Ka'sei, even if they attack you.
As you approach the structure, Dusk stops preparing the equipment to observe it from the window. "It is a fascinating structure. I've only seen a small number of Builder buildings, but this looks different from anything I have seen. Perhaps it is more structurally similar to their stations than their outposts given the almost negligible gravity, or they had other asteroid colonies that have been gradually lost over time. It would be worth doing a serious exploration of the asteroid belts in the Graveyard at some point.
	"You have been on Builder planets?"
	"How far have the Remnant explored the Graveyard?"
	"Do you have have all the equipment ready?"
	"I presume Taely already told you about the troubled beginnings we had in exploring the area; as a consequence of that, we had to reevaluate the procedures for exploring the nearby systems and species, especially beyond the Ossipago wormhole. Every scout ship entering the area has to always remain cloaked to prevent attacks from the countless Ka'het patrolling the area; this means that the further we need to travel to reach the destination, the more fuel we have to spend to return home, which considerably impacts the time we can spend cloaked in the destination. Some of the systems at the other end of the Graveyard have seen very few Starlings, most of them staying for less than a day.
	"Still, even with these limitations we were able to make considerable progress. We can read some of the words in their language, and we were able to retrieve a countless number of partly intact Builder artifacts. Perhaps some day we will be able to understand how to control the Ka'het. Who knows?
	"Oh I have, many times. I have never been on a Builder station, but on a few occasions I have participated to expeditions to newly discovered cities or semi-submersed bunkers. I presume Taely already told you about the troubled beginnings we had in exploring the area; as a consequence of that, we had to reevaluate the procedures for exploring the nearby systems and species, especially beyond the Ossipago wormhole. Every scout ship entering the area has to always remain cloaked for safety; this means that exploring planets is only possible for a limited time and that you cannot leave your ship if you do not have a means of hiding yourself from them.
	"Because of this, most of the planetary exploration is done with robotic probes. The Ka'het are able to detect and destroy devices that use faster than light communication, so only remote control with a Starling in the same system is possible. There are a lot of compromises that must be taken, but we can still make considerable progress even with these restrictions.
	"I need to prepare a few more instruments before we land," Dusk says as he stops staring at the dome and returns to his equipment. As you reach the complex, you do a few flights around it in search for a good landing site. Dusk points out a spot right next to a set of small circular indentations on the structure. After touching down, you and Dusk don extravehicular suits and start walking towards the cupola. He stops in front of a ring on its surface and starts looking through his equipment.
	"Well, I obviously cannot be sure, but given its location and that on the other side there is a pressurized area, it should be an airlock. I have seen scans of the Builder stations, and they look quite similar." He takes a heavy-looking scanner, puts it on the wall of the structure and starts moving it around. "If I am right, this way should have a control station hidden inside the wall - and here it is!" he sings with satisfaction.
	Using a small instrument similar in appearance to a crowbar, Dusk slowly pulls out a section from the wall, kicking off a good amount of dust in the process. The control station is a two-sided panel, full of switches and buttons with small alien markings above each of them.
	"Can you read them?"
	"Can you open the airlock?"
	"Are you sure this won't put us in danger?"
	"I can, yes. The first row of switches controls the lights inside the complex, the second row controls redundant pressurization systems, and there are similar such operations controlled by the rest of the panel.
	"There is no way to be certain, but this is the only possible way to get in without destroying half of the complex.
	"This," Dusk says as he presses a switch in the middle of the panel, "is what we were looking for." Soon after, the door in front of you opens, revealing a small room with another door at the opposite end. You follow Dusk inside, where he takes out the scanner again to look for another control panel. Once that is open, another switch allows him to close the door. Only the lights on your helmet keep you from being submerged in complete darkness. Looking around, you notice that the architecture is distinctly alien, with rounded angles on every side of the room and buttresses on either side of the doors. The ring itself is too small for you to pass through it standing upright, but the low gravity of the asteroid lets you almost fly though it without much trouble. "We now have to wait for the room to pressurize," he tells you.
	"How long do you think it will it take?"
	"Would it be safe to remove our helmets after that?"
	"I have no idea. Usually it is a matter of a few minutes, but we know next to nothing about this tech. We will have to wait and see. In the meanwhile," he says as he begins to activate another scanner, "I can analyze the atmosphere that is starting to fill this room. It should save us some time to do it here, as well as being safer, should it be dangerous to our suits."
	Dusk gives you an odd look. "Of course not <first>; it would almost certainly kill you. Such an alien atmosphere is unlikely to be breathable for a human, and even if it was we could not be sure until we analyze it extensively." He begins to activate another scanner, "Speaking of which, I can start analyzing the atmosphere that is starting to fill this room. It should save us some time to do it here, as well as also safer, should it be dangerous to our suits."
	Dusk continues working on the atmospheric analyzer for about five minutes without anything happening. You try to connect to the scanner on your ship to check the position of the nearby Fetri'sei, but the dome seems to jam all communication with the outside. Suddenly, you hear a loud "pop," and the door that leads inside the dome recesses a few centimeters. "Just in time," Dusk says. "My analysis of the atmosphere has finished. Let us go take a look inside." After a brief look at the writing on the door, he grabs a handle on it and slides it to the left. The hatch starts to slowly open inwards. When you come closer to the entrance you are instantly blinded by a strong light coming from the other side of the door. After lowering the sun shield on your helmet, your eyes start adapting to the new light level, and it takes you a few seconds to realize what is now in front of you. Landed inside the cupola, right in front of the airlock, is a Fetri'sei - a Ka'sei probe - pointed at you and Dusk.
	Both you and Dusk stand still in front of it without saying a word. Out of the corner of your eye, you can see his hands shivering. All of a sudden, the Ka'sei starts emitting a very high pitched sound, very hard to hear, frequently changing in intensity. This lasts only for a few seconds, then abruptly stops.
	(Run back in the airlock.)
	(Stay still and wait.)
	The whole cupola falls silent. What feels like hours pass before the Ka'sei swiftly lifts off in front of you, hovering a few meters above the terrain. Just like the previous time, it starts emitting the same sequence of sounds as the last time, followed by a clicking sound. Dusk turns towards you.
	(Keep staying still.)
	(Try shooting at the hover engines of the Ka'sei with my sidearm.)
	You take out your gun and start aiming for the Fetri'sei's side pods. Your first shot misses it completely, but after that you are able to make three full hits on the hover engines. Almost instantly, the Ka'sei starts emitting a loud siren. The ship fires a beam just to the left of you, letting out an ear-piercing wail. Both you and Dusk jump back to the airlock as fast as possible, but you are too far away to reach it in time before a Ravager beam tears through your suit. The last thing you see is Dusk closing the airlock.
	After another short silence, the Ka'sei starts emitting a loud siren. You hear the screech of Ravager fire as an angry energy beam sears through the air to your left, just barely missing you. Both you and Dusk jump back to the airlock, slamming the door closed. You can still feel the crackle of the Ravager cannons from the other side the the door, and after a second, the door begins to glow.
	(Open the exit door, even with the airlock full of air.)
	(Wait for the airlock to empty.)
	After waiting a few seconds, Dusk hurries towards the control station. "Hold on to something, I ha-" Suddenly, he is interrupted by a burst of light coming from where the door of the airlock used to be. Your suit provides little protection from the full force of the Ravager beams.
	You reach the control station as fast as you can and press the switch that Dusk had used when you first came in. The blast is not as strong as you imagined, but in a few seconds you are thrown out of the airlock by the sheer force of the air leaving from the breach. Both of you touch down after a few meters, crashing hard in the terrain that surrounds the cupola. Out of the corner of your eye, you see that there's still air coming out of the airlock, signifying that the interior door has been breached. It is very lucky that your suit has not been punctured.
	Looking around, you see Dusk laying face down next to you. Thankfully, he begins to stand up as you approach him. When he sees you, he silently pauses for a moment, before jerking his head to the airlock and signing. "We need to run. It could get out of the cupola, or others could arrive, and here in the open we are even easier targets." You nod and start going with him back to your ship.
	Running at full speed, it takes the two of you only a few minutes to reach the <ship>. Once safely in the cockpit, you sit down to catch your breath. After a moment, Dusk begins searching nervously for something on his suit. He takes out the atmospheric scanner he used earlier, but the screen is cracked and the external sensors are bent. "It must have been destroyed when we fell on the ground. I hope that at least its memory is still intact."
	You start running towards the airlock as fast as you can. Initially, Dusk tries to resist, but you drag him by force and lock the door behind you. Everything falls into silence again for half a minute while you are waiting for the room to depressurize, but suddenly the sound of a Ravager cannon cuts through the silence, and the inner airlock door begins to glow as it takes fire.
	After a few seconds of waiting, Dusk hurries towards the control station. "I have an idea," he says as he presses a few switches on the panel. "I can open a vent to expel the air out of here into the void, and get us out of here in a few seconds."
	You reach the control station as fast as you can and tell Dusk to hold on to something, but he stops you. "I have a better idea," he says as he presses a few switches on the panel. "I can open a vent to expel the air out of here into the void, and get us out of here in a few seconds."
	Soon after, the frontal door recedes. You two run out of the airlock as fast as possible. Behind you, you hear the roar of metal melting as a rush of air passes you by. You start running back to your ship with Dusk, hoping that the Ka'sei will not get out of the building before you are safe.
	Running at full speed, it takes the two of you only a few minutes to reach the <ship>. Once safely in the cockpit, you sit down to catch your breath. After a moment, Dusk begins searching nervously for something on his suit. He takes out the atmospheric scanner he used earlier and turns it on. "Phew. I was afraid it had broken down when we had to run away, but maybe we can still get the data we need."
	Dusk is interrupted by the shrieking wail of your ship's proximity alert as a hostile object appears on the radar screen. As Dusk suspected, the Fetri'sei must have tracked your movements after leaving the cupola. You start to ready your ship for combat, but Dusk interrupts you. "You cannot kill them, <first>. Do you remember the high pitched sound it emitted before shooting? He was trying to speak with us, Captain. Only a few words, maybe even pre-programmed for this kind of interaction, but still a complete phrase or more in pure Builder language. In decades of xenoarchaeological research, this is the first time that it occurs. These ships are an incredible discovery. They may be the only thing still capable of speaking that language in the entire Graveyard. You cannot destroy it, and disabling one is more a matter of luck than skill."
	"What should I do then?"
	"Well, I can only suggest to depart from here and set a route straight back to Aventine, while avoiding the Ka'sei. Sorry <first>, but it is preferable that we leave them alone." After all the risk you had to take, you cannot help but nod if this means getting as far from here as possible.
Soon after departing, your ship warns you that a large number of ships are targeting you. It appears the other Ka'sei are also going to attack.
You've returned to <planet>, but you realize your escort carrying Dusk has not yet entered the system! Better depart and wait for it.
reputation: Ka'sei
You disembark from your ship with Dusk, discussing the events that occurred in Patir. "Thank you for keeping the Ka'sei alive, <first>. They might be exactly what our Builder research needs, and I really hope I can continue exploring that place with you in the future. I will study what we have gathered in the last days trying to find anything that could give us more clues about them." He waves at you and starts walking towards the exit from the spaceport. "I will contact you again when I find something worth looking at. May the Embers burn bright for you, <first>."
You disembark from your ship with Dusk, who is visible angry that you destroyed one of the Ka'sei. "I told you not to attack them! I told you of their importance!" he signs harshly while pacing back and forth. "Oh my, oh my, we can only hope that this does not close any doors for us. Perhaps we can attempt to communicate with them? Tell them it was an accident?" He looks to you as if searching for some reassurance, but you have none to give. "Forget it. I will study what we have gathered, but I am afraid that it will be all that we will ever gather from that system." Dusk storms off without saying goodbye, typing away on his touchpad as he goes.
'het
Osaeli
Alix
Retilie
Veliante
Eavine
Celeatis
Nona
Palarei
Ceilia
Aerite
Letis
Maiar
Lateria
Gertima
Santari
Antamesa
Delia
bare
caci
tasii
taeri
maere
rexi
xaes
osia
tisi
rasi
tiim
cixi
tansii
panse
faxii
reati
teris
pess
exis
taete
Rela
Geto
Faii
Tana
Fasi
'mar
'sei
Current objective: 
aluminum
copper
gold
iron
lead
neodymium
platinum
silicon
silver
titanium
tungsten
uranium
gathering
mining
acquisition
obtainment
attainment
recovery
Research state: seeking for suitable asteroids.
hauling
freighting
transfer
relocation
allocation
. Resource destination: station 
Seli
Parii
, area 
Primary systems check: 
shield matrices
hyperdrive
life support systems
energy generator
weapon systems
main thrusters
main steering
main coolers
Ravager emitters
Annihilator loading systems
tracking systems
: online. Secondary systems check: 
solar wind harvester: online and active
energy storage: available
support coolers: online and active
shield restorers: online and active
long range antennae: available
Current objective: systems 
patrol
garrison
vigilance
. Threats identified: none. Estimated progress: 
Het status: 
operational
active
alive
functioning
awake
. Expected lifetime: 
 years.
Current
Selected
Chosen
Main
Primary
 target: <ship>. Government: 
unknown
unrecognized
no data
unidentified
. Attitude: 
friendly
neutral
peaceful
positive
acceptable
safe
tolerable
adequate
. No necessary action.
Connection with the vessel <ship>: 
established
stable
reliable
. Estimated signal strength: 
Failed connection with 
planet Osaeli
planet Alix
planet Retilie
planet Veliante
planet Eavine
planet Celeatis
planet Nona
planet Palarei
station Ceilia
station Aerite
station Letis
station Maiar
station Lateria
station Gertima
station Santari
station Antamesa
construction site Delia
. Reason: 
no response
missing response
. Sending report to station 
Established connection with station 
. Signal strength: 
%. No new data received. Last data received 
 years, 
1 season
2 seasons
3 seasons
4 seasons
5 seasons
6 seasons
 days ago. 
Continuing
Returning to
 primary task.
. Analyzing system <system>. 
Searching
Looking for
Studying
Neutralizing
Identifying
 possible threats.
shield matrices: unavailable
hyperdrive: unavailable
life support systems: unavailable
energy generator: partially online
weapon systems: offline
main thrusters: offline
main steering: offline
main coolers: unavailable
Ravager emitters: offline
Annihilator loading systems: offline
tracking systems: partially online
. Secondary systems check: 
solar wind harvester: offline
energy storage: unavailable
support coolers: unavailable
shield restorers: offline
long range antennae: unavailable
. Requesting assistance.
Current objective: threat 
identification
recognition
elimination
eradication
destruction
. Secondary objective: 
salvage
plundering
Threat: 
identified
discovered
recognized
analyzed
determined
spotted
. Threat level: 
very low
average
high
very high
. Adopting countermeasures.
rival
hostile
unfriendly
negative
inacceptable
dangerous
Evaluating necessary actions
Executing necessary actions
%. Reporting hostilities in system <system>.
. Countermeasures: 
unavailable
offline
. Assistance request: 
denied
refused
rejected
unanswered
. Demanding reinforcements from station 
This creature appears to have an outer shell made of small asteroids held together by strands of carbon nanotubes. It pulls rocks through arms into its main cavity where it processes them to make more shell. The multi-colored hairs pointing back seem to be a drive system of sorts, manipulating the gravity field around the creature to accelerate it. There is no apparent hyperdrive mechanism, but somehow it is able to open a hyperspace window.
Over the past century, a cubic kilometer of this moon has been hollowed out and filled with corridors and cavernous rooms. There is a city of nearly a hundred thousand people whose lives have been focused on science since their ancestors were first brought here a hundred twenty years ago. Now humans, Hai, and even some Korath, live here working side-by-side. Once they were slaves to a succession of criminal organizations, and their story brought the Hai and humans to the brink of war. Fortunately, a resourceful pilot from New Boston averted catastrophe and freed Elenctic Commune.
The spaceport is a distinct structure separate from the larger underground settlements. It has both hangar and ventilation access to the surface with a massive air processor that is the primary supply of breathable air to the population. This once allowed the city to be controlled by pirate groups despite being vastly outnumbered by those they ruled. A disused fighting ring, empty mounts for battle trophies, and bloody spikes that once held pirate victims are all still features baked into the construction. A thick access tunnel with supplementary corridors and vents leads downward from the spaceport to the main settlement. There is still extensive damage from the invasion, but the denizens are slowly cleaning it up.
Skirmish Batteries are very common outfits on Gegno ships. They can be either a cheaper alternative than upgrading to a larger reactor, or a nice addition alongside one where short bursts of high energy may be needed.
Battlezone Batteries are primarily used on the Gegno's medium-range combat vessels, holding a moderate amount of power for long-lasting engagements. They also fit nicely on larger vessels as a buffer to power their more energy-hungry systems.
Warforge Batteries have proven their usefulness over the years as large, sturdy battery packs. They support the equally large volleys that are fired from Gegno ships, and help maintain an excess of power for engine usage.
As the largest battery mounted on power-hungry Gegno ships, the Crusade Battery holds an immense amount of energy, more than a Scrap Cell could produce in almost two minutes. However, the Gegno are inefficient at increasing density with size. As a result, these batteries are generally only used on ships that consistently need this sort of power reserve, while most other ships simply stack multiple smaller batteries that are more convenient to install or remove according to their needs.
The Scrap Cell is a small radiothermal generator that produces a limited amount of energy. It is only used on the Gegno's smaller-sized vessels, or in tandem with their less energy-hungry internals.
When developing the C7 Brawl Cell, the Gegno decided to scale up the smaller C3 Scrap Cell. Unfortunately, the new design became so tall that the Gegno struggled to fit it into some of their ships, requiring them to turn the entire thing sideways. This design still serves the Gegno well, though it will likely be phased out in favor of newer generators as they become more compact and efficient.
The Gegno began developing nuclear technology once their cities grew massive enough to require it. The Warzone Core is a medium-sized nuclear fission reactor that is a suitable power source for most of the Gegno's large ships, though it appears to lack many of the fail-safes you would expect to find on a human nuclear reactor.
In order to power the largest of vessels along with their energy-guzzling systems and engines, the Gegno designed the Campaign fusion reactor from earlier prototypes dating back to their generation ship era. It's still used to this day and is efficient enough to satisfy the requirements of the largest of Gegno warships, but just looking at it raises safety concerns.
The I70 Cell was designed by the Scin as a smaller, more compact power system for their Halite fighters. It has enough energy generation and capacity to fuel the Halite's thrusters and their weapons for a short period. Unfortunately, as a side effect, a bit more excess heat is also generated.
The RG15 Ion Torch Thruster is the Gegno Vi's smallest torch thruster, found almost exclusively on the Slate. It is somewhat inefficient, weighing more and producing more heat than most thrusters of a similar size in exchange for using slightly less energy.
This steering system is meant for the smallest of Gegno Vi ships. However, some Gegno pilots use it to cheaply supplement their main steering engines.
The RG18 is a moderately large thruster used by the Gegno Vi. Ion Torch Thrusters are similar to human ion thrusters, but their explosive exhaust causes them to run hotter. However, they also require slightly less energy.
The RG18 Steering system is quite large for a steering system of its power. Many Gegno Vi ships install these as a minimum to be able to turn their already heavy ships.
Derived from the massive thrusters that powered early Gegno generation ships, RG3 Ion Torch Thrusters are the Gegno's largest thrusters and the oldest still used. Smaller ships that attempt to use these engines often end up overheating themselves.
The oldest steering system used in Gegno space, RG3 Torch Thrusters can only fit on the largest Gegno vessels, and are rarely seen as a result.
In order to power the tiny Halite frame, the Gegno Scin developed this smaller engine system. Based on their larger plasma thrusters, these engines are much more efficient than the Vi's bigger, more sluggish ion engines, which would never be compact or light enough to run on a fighter.
Rather than developing on the Ion Torch design of the Vi, the Scin began work on a plasma-based thruster. They are more compact, weigh less, and produce significantly more thrust. However, since Ion Torches expel some of their heat in their thrust, the more stable and powerful SC thrusters tend to run hotter.
The new SC plasma engines allow Gegno Scin ships to outmanoeuvre their opposing brothers. What might take a Vi ship a long time takes only a moment on a Scin ship.
SC-14 class thrusters power the Scin's average gunboat or transport, giving their ships reliable speed. They can quickly propel any medium-sized ship forward with reasonable efficiency.
Larger than SC-12 engines, SC-14 class steering is one of the most powerful steering systems in Gegno space, allowing the Scin to reposition even their largest ships many times faster than their Vi counterparts.
The Gegno Scin have taken another step forward from the SC-14 class engine system, incorporating both reverse and forward thrust into a single engine. In order to field the SC-15, the Scin had to design their largest ships around the thrusters, rather than fit it on later. The ability to reverse is especially important in engagements with the Gegno Vi's forward-heavy combat vessels.
Irate Cannons are a rudimentary cannon technology that fire explosive projectiles made out of condensed scrap metal, making them effective against armor. They fire decently fast, but one cannon alone is barely enough to output any sort of meaningful damage, which is why they are often found clustered together in numbers.
While the Irate Cannon Turret originally saw little use due to Vi ships having enough space to field larger caliber weapons in their turret mounts, this turret has become more popular as the Vi produce smaller ships with more limited weapon space. To offset the lack of raw firepower from a single cannon, the turret boasts two mounted on a rotating platform, doubling its rate of fire in a single mount.
A higher caliber than the Irate Cannon, Choleric Cannons fire larger, slower rounds that do a noticeable chunk of damage to a ship's hull. However, due to the nature of the cannon, it is, along with other Gegno weaponry, very ineffective against any sort of shielding.
Mounted on a turret, a Choleric Cannon is much more devastating without the need to keep a target in front of the ship to land shots. It can consistently put out damage to a target's hull, and with multiple turrets, any shieldless vessel is forced to retreat after a decent enough bombardment lest they be destroyed.
The Gegno Vi Ballistic Cannon tops its sister cannons as the highest caliber weapon that the Gegno field. Each cannon round can inflict tremendous damage to a target's exposed hull. Due to the size and power of these cannons, their shells have a slow reload time and travel speed. As such, they can often be dodged by faster or smaller craft, but if able to be equipped in numbers, they can create a deadly wall of fire.
As the largest caliber cannon in the Gegno Vi's arsenal, Ballistic Cannons require a lot of work to be fitted on even the largest of ships. A huge, self-sustaining base with its own vent ports is necessary for one of these cannons to even be fitted on a turret mount, provided there are crew to operate it. Combining destructive force with adjustable aim, Ballistic Cannon Turrets are the deadliest weapons of Vi warships.
The Gegno Scin are the first Gegno to advance plasma technology to the point where it can be used in combat, although the energy requirement of such technology is still significant. Astuit Batteries work very similar to human Energy Blasters, firing small condensed plasma projectiles at high rates of fire. With four Astuit Blasters on a turreted mount, it produces a constant stream of damage which adds up over time, despite the minor damage that each individual projectile creates.
With a better grasp on plasma and energy weaponry, the Gegno Scin developed a larger blaster weapon to mount on the Feldspar Carrier as a counter to the Gegno Vi's huge cannon weaponry. Acuit Artillery turrets outrange most weapons in Gegno space, while having a higher rate of fire as well, making them very efficient bombardment weapons.
The Guile Pulse Laser is a recent experimental advancement in Scin plasma weapon technology. Rather than rapid firing plasma slugs, this weapon fires concentrated pulses of energy that only last for a brief moment. Each blast impacts the target ship almost instantaneously with a powerful hit, and a consistent amount of fire from Guile Lasers is extremely effective against slow moving targets.
	Guile Pulse Lasers have noticeable drawbacks as they quickly consume energy and generate notable heat per shot. Unlike a beam-type weapon, they are incapable of consistent output, and have a fairly short range.
Excavator Drills are large drills designed by the Gegno that rip materials out of asteroids in an efficient manner. These types of drill systems are only found on ships specifically designed around them as they require substantial infrastructure to be functional.
A Savagery Bludgeon is a mace-like weapon found jammed into the Gegno Vi's Dunite duelist ships. They are used as melee weapons for close-quarter rams and jousts during duels. However, they have hardly any use as a weapon outside of this as they merely scratch larger ship's hulls and barely put a dent into anything shielded.
This is a ceremonial spear-like weapon presented to Vi warriors when they officially become part of the military. On the forward end are several long, sharp pikes that can easily pierce enemies, and on the rear end is a built-in cannon that can fire up to two explosive rounds. The cannon rounds are rarely used by the Vi unless they deem it absolutely necessary to defeat their foe or deal with unanticipated outside factors.
Miniaturizing ship-to-ship cannons and haphazardly shoving them into small makeshift barricades isn't exactly the safest way to install boarding defenses. Despite this, the hard-armored hulls of larger Gegno warships prove resilient enough to field Irate Carronades. Anyone, or anything, that unknowingly approaches a corridor where one is installed will likely become a new paint layer on the nearby walls.
Plasmasickles are weapons specialized for close-quarters combat. Incorporating the Scin's recently developed plasma technology, the blade is heated to high temperatures, enabling it to slice through tough targets. Only select groups of Scin crew are equipped with these, but they are trained well enough to use them effectively.
With development of more plasma-based weaponry, the Scin invented their own type of grenades using plasma to create powerful explosions. They are effective at clearing out large groups of enemies and are less of a hazard than unpredictable fragmentation grenades, allowing them to be a bit more reliable for defensive use. These grenades are kept in odd magnetic storage devices that prevent them from accidentally detonating - except on rare occasions.
You have been accepted as a titular Gegno citizen that provides benefits for the Gegno race, and have been awarded access to their civilian technology.
A majority of the Vi's military hierarchy recognizes you as a respectable foe and invaluable asset for their ambitions. The responsibility of maintaining the largest of Vi vessels is now within your grasp.
Amongst the Vi's Evocati you have proven yourself as a powerful leader in combat and a successful user of judgment. Access to a portion of the Vi's military arsenal awaits your interests.
The Gegno Vi have recognized you as a committed warrior to their cause, and see usefulness in you. Low level Vi technology now becomes accessible for your leisure.
Your intelligence is most desirable in the eyes of the Gegno Scin, and your reward is the usage of advanced Scin weaponry.
Showing that you are advantageous to the Scin's constructive efforts, you are now given permission to operate their most advanced vessels.
Productive acts perpetrated by you have raised the interests of the Gegno Scin, and they authorize you to purchase their most basic technology.
After the Gegno discovered hyperspace lanes and began to use them, their enormous (and expensive) generation ships became too cumbersome to use for the purpose of interstellar commerce, leading to the need for a smaller and more manageable ship such as this. The Shale is the Gegno's equivalent of a Shuttle: a small and compact transport. Whether it be cargo, trade goods, travelers, or recruits, Shales are the foundation of Gegno interstellar civilization.
Almost as large as a human cruiser, Dolomites are the Gegno's most common cargo vessel in service, its original design dating back to the early days of space colonization. They are used as both passenger liners and cargo vessels. Due to their popularity and continuous usage, both the Vi and Scin factions have developed on the original design for their own purposes.
Over time, the Gegno needed larger vessels to carry materials to and from new worlds - ones that would be easier to build and operate than their older, outdated generation ships, but larger than their shuttlecraft. The Conglomerate was designed to fill that exact role.
To fuel their increasing need for materials, the Gegno designed a new ship class for the sole purpose of mining. The resulting platform, the Gypsum, is not much more than a flying drill with cargo containers, engines, and a bridge attached behind it, making it cost-efficient and easy to manufacture.
	Because Gegno engines are not very powerful, the Gypsum has difficulty chasing faster-moving asteroids. In order to alleviate this problem without needing to massively increase the engine space on the ship, the Gegno have instead developed the powerful Excavator Drill, which can shred asteroids in a matter of seconds, meaning the Gypsum only needs to be near an asteroid for a mere moment in order to mine it.
Dunites are unique vessels designed by the Gegno Vi entirely for the purpose of dueling. It is a hodgepodge of parts, simply being an engine, power system, cockpit, and Irate Cannon mashed together without any regard to structural integrity. The most notable feature is a long mace-like protrusion next to the Irate Cannon which is used for jousting and ramming other duelists.
	Being a mangled mess of machinery designed for only a single purpose, Dunites do not come equipped with nor have room for hyperdrives, and are purely intrastellar craft.
The Augen-Class is an ancient battleship proposed by the Vi as a large weapons platform for their Ballistic Cannons. It was built in secret over many years in Enbi's canyon shipyard, and for many periods of time its construction was put on hold. The recent civil war with the Scin gave reason to complete the warship, although it is still somewhat of a relic compared to current vessels in the service of the Vi fleet.
	This project was meant to result in two sister-ship behemoths, but the blueprints for the other design went missing early in the process, and are currently nowhere to be found.
Designed by the Gegno Vi, the Slate is a modified Shale with a stronger hull and more space, a prime characteristic of Vi vessels. Slightly larger than other shuttle ships to suit the Vi's stature, it is able to carry several Gegno cadets along with a small cargo load.
Based on the Gegno's old Dolomite, the Schist is a mid-range ship used by the Vi. It can carry a decent amount of cargo, and has enough bunks to carry a whole platoon of warriors. It is the primary vessel used to transport recruits to the front lines, and veterans back to home territories.
	Although is it lightly armed compared to other Vi ships, Schists still are mounted with a pair of forward facing cannons and a turret so they can bring some type of weaponry to any possible engagement, as well as a set of angled guns for deterring any smaller, faster ships from attempting to flank the vessel.
While the style of longer battleship-esque vessels is a Gegno Vi staple, another shipyard rose to the competition for Vi warship designs. The Eclogite is one of the newest designs in the Vi fleet - a gunboat armed to the teeth with cannons, and maneuverability that the Vi's larger ships lack. It plays the role of a hit-and-run vessel, unloading volleys of shells against a target's armor in a rapid maneuver before adjusting its position for another run.
Continuing on with the design concept of the Vi's Eclogite, the Diorite is made by a separate shipyard from other larger Vi vessels. It is much more maneuverable than other Vi ships in its class, allowing it to easily keep a bead on other ships its size, and sometimes smaller ones as well.
Hornfels are the workhorse of the Gegno Vi's military - decently sized, decently fast, and more than decently armed warships designed for the frontline of operations. Hornfels are also the most configurable ship in the Vi's fleet, lined with many mounting points to support cargo pods, allowing them to provide a secondary transport role for when the Vi require replacement supplies in war. Other variants of Hornfels are instead occasionally found with adjustments to carry a larger armament. This multi-role function is extremely valued and is the reason why the Hornfel is one of the Vi's most popular ships.
Gneiss battleships are the Gegno Vi's true sword and shield in war. They are slightly older than the Hornfels and Schists, but carry the heaviest armament, bearing three huge mounts dedicated to holding enormous Ballistic Cannons. Gniess also have extremely strong armor plating, and can take a hefty beating while firing threatening broadsides at the opposing force.
	Unfortunately, in exchange for huge firepower and defensive armor, they lack speed and maneuverability, even when fitted with the largest engine systems the Vi have to offer.
Granulites are descendants of the Gegno's early generation ships used to colonize nearby systems before the invention of the hyperdrive. They now carry hundreds of Vi both in and out of war, and huge cargo loads to supply depots. They are not typically used as warships, but can support enough weaponry to threaten most smaller vessels, or fend off larger ships long enough for reinforcements to arrive.
Halites are a successful experimental test platform designed by the Gegno Scin. They are the Gegno's first fighter-based craft, and the first to equip both early-stage pulse weapon and shield technology; almost half the hull is dedicated to these new developments.
	Able to bring a swarm of instant damage to slow-moving Vi warships while under protective shielding, a large number of these ships are seen aboard Scin carrier craft.
	Fighters do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a fighter unless you have a ship in your fleet with a fighter bay.
The Mica is the Gegno Scin's take on a shuttlecraft, and is based on the Shale and the Vi's Slate. It is ever so slightly smaller, since the Scin aren't as large, but carries newer engine systems so it is almost twice as fast as the Shale and the Slate.
Coesites are smaller warships that the Scin use as screening vessels during battles with the Vi. They are speedy and carry two turret mounts which allow them to always be orbiting and firing on the move. Being a smaller design, these ships are relatively easy to manufacture, and are often fielded in groups so they may overtake vessels much larger than them.
Built upon a similar frame to the Coesite, the Tridymite serves as a small luxury transport vessel for the Gegno Scin. Tridymites are typically used as research vessels, transporting crews of scientists from one location to another, or as private vessels for top ranking Scin scientists. Additionally, Tridymites can occasionally be seen used as a scout craft by the military, equipped with an early prototype scanner system built into the frame.
Felsics are based on Schists, but offer many upgrades in exchange for less durability. The Scin have opted for three turret mounts, as well as expanded capacity for outfits, weapons, and engines. All this allows these ships to perform logistical duties as well as doubling as a secondary combat vessel, making up for the lack of a dedicated Scin warship.
The mighty Feldspar is a Scin creation to behold. As a testbed for the new Halite fighters, Feldspars bring their own small fleets with them and overwhelm their enemy. They were also designed as a semi-experimental platform, built around a brand new multi-engine system and the latest in Gegno plasma technology.
	Able to keep a decent stance away from a battle while putting down artillery fire, Feldspars are quite a dangerously well-rounded ship for their size. On the downside, they are more susceptible to hull damage like any other Scin warship, especially when alone. As such, they rely on their fighters to keep their enemies at a distance.
Epidotes are large independent research platforms with adequately-sized cargo holds, allowing them to perform as a reliable heavy freighter for the Gegno Scin. A large number of bunks either help transport groups of Scin scientists to their project destinations, or allow for mobile on-board demonstrations and observations. Each Epidote is equipped with a rear fighter docking bay capable of carrying two Halites, typically used to ship Halite fighters around Scin space to resupply carriers. Thanks to these fighters and the Epidotes' three dorsal turrets, they can also be used as a secondary warship when needed.
	Like other Gegno Scin ships, Epidotes themselves are an experimental test bed; they are built around the same large engine system tested on Feldspars, making them notably fast for their size.
Beuci
Dueyu
Efta
Kyhe
Imnn
Isyp
Tyyn
Eysyp
Iidt
Oorevyt
Ufftye
Tyebbui
Yuduue
Uhmtyeph
Qesscit
Cscayim
Eisc
Iilsc
Eitch
Ooayvyt
Echtyya
Tyyasca
Iefsct
Ieftye
Iusta
Uffduyeu
Bbutye
Scbiye
Aehietch
Dueyoh
Uuftei
Ootyff
Kuuay
Jiee
Tyuoe
Zueyt
Tschzer
Lleiesid
Inyseiet
Ispue
Jeiys
Iepy
Iievae
Gyteienl
Piaxenni
Duyeitch
Ziurteil
Ymiffeft
Tchynd
Tscael
Ymipiae
Pixeni
Tiyesca
Vduscae
Duefyu
Llteiurv
Enncyurtte
<Alien> Transport
Transport the <alien> you assisted on <origin> to the location designated on the map.
As you descend towards the surface of this seemingly uninhabited world, you activate your ship's radar system to scan the surface for anything of interest. While waiting for something to appear, you look up and catch a glimpse of a cloud of dust bursting from the ground far off to your right. Peering back down to your radar, you check the surface scans of that direction, but nothing appears. As you continue your flight, another sudden dust cloud appears several minutes later, but still nothing on the radar. You decide to keep your ship a few thousand meters above the surface and take the time to carefully look around, but there still doesn't seem to be anything of note besides the cracked rock formations and valleys of sand.
	Suddenly, your radar system picks up a larger signal on the horizon, and you see a bulky, rock-like structure. Once you get close enough, the structure begins to resemble a ship like ones you've seen flying around in the nearby systems, although it is half sunken into the sand.
	(Land near the ship and investigate.)
	(Continue to search the surface.)
	You carefully land your ship nearby, exiting your ship in an environment suit with your sidearm on hand and walk towards the alien spacecraft. The ship appears a bit larger than you thought - around the size of a Firebird. The dark-brown hull appears to be made from an unknown material, and has several metallic-looking parts both hatched in crevices and protruding outward. Oddly enough, the warship seems perfectly intact, but the way it is angled into the sand suggests that the ship has been there for some time. There doesn't seem to be any activity around it either. You decide to head back to your ship and take another look around the area.
	As you fly onward, an erratic signature on the surface appears on the edge of your radar. A large arch-like structure becomes visible in the distance, but disappears shortly after. You set your ship down close to the location and exit to investigate.
	As you fly onward, an erratic signature on the surface appears on the edge of your radar. A large arch-like structure becomes visible in the distance, but disappears shortly after. You set your ship down close to the location and exit to investigate, making sure to equip an environment suit and holster your sidearm.
	Much to your surprise, there is a large humanoid figure standing where the signature originated from. Your radar showed something much less defined than a humanoid, but standing in front of you is a large, bulky being cladded in what looks like a form of metallic armor, wielding a spear-like weapon. The figure moves around attentively as if it is focused on its surroundings, but appears to take no interest in your presence. The encounter feels very odd in that there is no immediate interaction or acknowledgment of your existence.
	(Approach the alien.)
	(Turn back to my ship.)
	Suddenly, the ground starts to vibrate intensely. You take out your sidearm in a panic, but as you look back up at the alien figure, you notice that they too enter a defensive stance - but not towards you. A large maw bursts open in the sand to your left, and out of it comes a massive creature hundreds of times your size, covered in spikes and scales. You barely have time to react as it plummets onto the sand to your right, but you get a glimpse of the alien creature riding the beast as they impale it with their weapon.
	(Leave the planet immediately.)
	(Distance myself from the site but continue to watch.)
	(Try to help the alien defeat the beast.)
	You aim your sidearm at the beast, preparing to fire. Instead of digging back under the surface, the beast continues to thrash about where it is while the alien batters it down with their spear weapon. Making sure you don't accidentally hit them, you hold your breath and wait until the right moment comes, aiming for the creature's head. The flailing creature begins to gets closer, and your pulse begins to race. A gust of sand blasts directly towards you, and once it clears you fire your weapon. A laser shot flies directly into the face of the beast.
	Much to your dismay, the shot almost immediately ricochets off of it. You watch as the massive monster tumbles over you, just barely leaping into the air above. The monster plunges into the earth behind you, and you fall to your back with the wind knocked out of you. You raise your sidearm once more. The creature explodes out of the ground with its gaping mouth pointed upward to the sky. With shaking hands, you take aim once again and pull the trigger.
	A loud, cannon-like bang follows, but it most certainly did not come from your weapon. The beast before you falls downward in a cloud of black smoke, blasting sand and rubble everywhere with a thud. Once you come to your senses, you see the alien marching out of the creature's mouth.
	(Stand up and approach the alien.)
	(Get up and run to your ship.)
	Before you can collect yourself, you realize the alien is now much closer to you. Within a matter of moments, the alien stands before you, giving you a much better look at them. They are much taller than you, extremely bulky, and slightly hunched over. Heavy-looking metal surrounds their body, and in any exposed areas are rough-looking patches of skin and hair. Thick facial hair covers their face, and above their human-like eyes are a pair of horns curved inward towards you.
	Awkward silence ensues, and the alien looks you up and down in an unenthused way. They emit a very deep grumble, and with a loud snort, reach into a crevice in their armor to grab something. Pulling out what looks to be some sort of star map, they point to a location on it, gesture to themselves, then lower the device slowly to you. It seems they want to be taken to one of their species' planets.
	(Accept their request).
	(Ask about their request.)
	(Reject their request.)
	You hesitantly take the device and turn to make your way to your ship. Before leaving, you take one last glimpse of the enormous creature in the background. Its head is very reptilian, close to dragon-like, with numerous eyes and a mane of spikes. A few small appendages are on either end of it, almost like a scaly salamander. The various signatures on your radar earlier must have been others of their kind. Glaring at you, then at the creature, the Vi warrior utters a single intelligible word in a very deep voice:
	"Voordt."
	You try to ask the alien about the trip, but they simply give you a blank stare for a few seconds before shoving the star map into your chest, letting go of it. You reactively catch it, almost falling over yourself, and then take one last glance at the enormous creature in the background. Its head is very reptilian, close to dragon-like, with numerous eyes and a mane of spikes. A few small appendages are on either end of it, almost like a scaly salamander. Turning around, you see that the alien is already far ahead of you, and you rush after so they aren't first to your ship.
	You shake your head and decline the request of the alien after having dealt with everything that's happened. Turning back towards your ship to leave, you suddenly find yourself face-first in the ground, coughing up sand and dust, and hear the device hit the ground beside you. In frustration, you quickly get up and look for the alien, who is already marching towards your ship in the distance. Perhaps it wasn't the best idea to decline the request and turn your back on a being several times larger than you, who just took down a beast hundreds of times the size of them. You turn to look at the huge creature one last time. Its head is very reptilian, close to dragon-like, with numerous eyes and a mane of spikes. Definitely something more dangerous than you could ever be on foot.
	Cautiously retreating towards your ship, you keep your eyes and ears peeled for the creature, wondering if and where it might appear again. As if to answer your inquiry, the ground begins to rumble, and off to your left, sand and rubble erupt into the air as the beast twists and turns across the surface. Following a loud bellow, the creature screeches in short bursts, almost like chirps, except much deeper than that of a bird. As some of the dust clears, you see the alien figure breathing intensely as they continue to battle the beast.
	(Help the alien.)
	With the situation beginning to spin out of your control, you quickly turn around and make for your ship, taking off as soon as you can. You wonder what will become of the alien figure as while they are most certainly a member of the species inhabiting the nearby systems, it doesn't seem like any help will be sent for them anytime soon.
	Suddenly, your radar systems pick up a larger signal on the horizon, and you see a bulky, rock-like structure. Once you get close enough, you recognize it as one of the Gegno's warships, although it is half sunken into the sand.
	(Investigate the Gegno ship.)
	(Resume your search of the surface.)
	You carefully land your ship nearby. Most of the faint radar signatures from earlier have disappeared out of range. Exiting your ship in an environment suit and your sidearm on hand, you walk towards the Gegno ship.
	The ship appears a bit larger than you thought - around the size of a Firebird. The dark-brown hull appears to be made from an unknown material, and has several metallic-looking parts both hatched in crevices and protruding outward, indicative of the Gegno Vi's brutish aesthetics. Oddly enough, the warship seems perfectly intact, but the way it is angled into the sand suggests that the ship has been here for some time. There doesn't seem to be any activity around it, and you aren't picking up any nearby signs of life. You decide to head back to your ship and take another look around the area.
	As you fly onward, an erratic signature appears on the edge of your radar. A large arch-like structure becomes visible in the distance, but disappears shortly after. You set your ship down close where it originated from and exit to investigate, donning your environment suit with your sidearm at hand.
	Much to your surprise, there is a large humanoid figure standing in front of you. It looks nothing like the Gegno you've seen on the nearby Quarg ringworld; it is large, bulky, and clad in metallic armor. In one of its hands is a spear-like weapon; you guess that they are a Gegno Vi based on their appearance. The Vi moves around attentively, focused on its surroundings, but appears to take no interest in your presence.
	(Approach the Vi warrior.)
	Suddenly, the ground starts to vibrate intensity. You take out your sidearm in a panic, but as you look back up at the Vi, you notice that they too enter a defensive stance - but not towards you. A large maw bursts open in the sand to your left, and out of it comes a massive creature hundreds of times the size of you, covered in spikes and scales. You barely have time to react as it plummets onto the sand to your right, but you get a glimpse of the Vi riding the beast as they impale it with their weapon.
	(Observe the situation from a distance.)
	(Assist the Vi in defeating the beast.)
	You bring your sidearm up to a firing position and wait for the beast. Once again, it jumps out of the sand in an incredible display, but instead of digging back under the surface, the beast continues to thrash about where it is while the Vi batters it down with their spear weapon. Making sure you don't accidentally hit them, you hold your breath and wait until the right moment comes, aiming for the creature's head. The flailing creature begins to gets closer, and your pulse begins to race. A gust of sand blasts directly towards you, and once it clears you fire your weapon. A laser shot flies directly into the face of the beast.
	A loud, cannon-like bang follows, but it most certainly did not come from your weapon. The beast before you falls downward in a cloud of black smoke, blasting sand and rubble everywhere with a thud. Once you come to your senses, you see the Vi marching out of the creature's mouth.
	Before you can collect yourself, you realize the Vi warrior is now much closer to you. Within a matter of moments, the alien stands before you, giving you a much better look at them. They are much taller than both you and the other Gegno you've seen, extremely bulky, and slightly hunched over. Heavy-looking metal surround their body, and in any exposed areas are rough-looking patches of skin and hair. Thick facial hair covers their face, and above their human-like eyes are a pair of horns curved inward towards you.
	While the Gegno are known to dislike outsiders, this particular Gegno seems to at the very least acknowledge you. After a period of awkward and what seems to be judgmental silence, the Vi looks you up and down in an unenthused manner. They emit a very deep grumble, and with a loud snort, reach into a crevice in their armor to grab something. Pulling out what looks to be some sort of star map, they point to a location on it, gesture to themselves, then lower the device slowly to you. It seems they want to be taken to one of the Gegno's planets.
	You try to ask the Gegno about the trip, but they simply give you a blank stare for a few seconds before shoving the star map into your chest, letting go of it. You reactively catch it, almost falling over yourself, and then take one last glance at the enormous creature in the background. Its head is very reptilian, close to dragon-like, with numerous eyes and a mane of spikes. A few small appendages are on either end of it, almost like a scaly salamander. Turning around, you see that the Gegno is already far ahead of you, and you rush after so they aren't first to your ship.
	You shake your head and decline the request of the Gegno after having dealt with everything that's happened. Turning back towards your ship to leave, you suddenly find yourself face-first in the ground, coughing up sand and dust, and hear the device hit the ground beside you. In frustration, you quickly get up and look for the Gegno, who is already marching towards your ship in the distance. Perhaps it wasn't the best idea to decline the request and turn your back on a being several times larger than you who just took down a beast hundreds of times the size of them. You turn to look at the huge creature one last time. Its head is very reptilian, close to dragon-like, with numerous eyes and a mane of spikes. Definitely something more dangerous than you could ever be on foot.
	Cautiously retreating to a safer distance, you keep your eyes and ears peeled for the creature, wondering if and where it might appear again. As if to answer your inquiry, the ground begins to rumble, and off to your left, sand and rubble erupt into the air as the beast twists and turns across the surface. Following a loud bellow, the creature screeches in short bursts, almost like chirps, except much more deeper than that of a bird. As some of the dust clears, you see the Vi breathing intensely as they continue to battle the beast.
	(Assist the Vi.)
You find yourself approaching this desert world once again, wondering what happened to the alien figure you previously encountered. Knowing the world is home to a dangerous indigenous species, you are hesitant on landing, making sure to stay clear of any signs of creatures like the one from before.
	(Go search for the alien.)
	(Carry on.)
	With the coordinates of the alien vessel still in the history of your ship's computer, you set off to find it again. On your flight there, your radar suddenly picks up another ship approaching, and you look up to see the same type of ship you saw before flying at a higher altitude over you in the opposite direction. It must be another pilot belonging to the alien species.
	(Attempt to contact the ship.)
	(Evade the ship.)
	The ship continues to fly off behind you until it disappears. It seems that whoever is piloting it isn't concerned with helping the alien on the surface. Eventually, the familiar sunken vessel appears on the horizon and you begin to fly around the area in search for signs of life, hoping that the alien is still alive. Nothing comes up besides the faint blips of the sand creatures at the edges of your radar and you decide to follow them instead.
	The signals keep randomly disappearing and reappearing elsewhere, and appear to lead to only empty space. After checking a few of them, an erratic movement appears on the edge of your radar, similar to the one during your first visit. Approaching the location, you recognize the beast that is swinging about on the surface, and catch glimpses of the alien from before continuing to fight it.
	(Assist the alien in defeating the creature.)
Despite knowing you are transporting one of them, you made the conscious decision to fire upon <alien> ships, and the rest of your trip to this world was extremely awkward. Rather than settle in a bunk, the <alien> passenger stood close behind you in your cockpit the entire time. You occasionally turned to observe their behavior and even made attempts to communicate, but they wouldn't so much as look in your direction.
	Strangely, they didn't seem to be upset at all, at least in a way you could tell. Regardless, the tension became extremely uncomfortable, but now that you've landed your ship, perhaps you could address it.
	(Try to communicate with the <alien>.)
	Before you could turn to speak to them, you feel an immense force go straight through your torso, and your body slowly starts to lift up. You try to speak, but nothing comes out, and struggling your head, you turn to see that the <alien> has pierced you through your chest with their spear weapon. As your vision slowly fades, the last glimpse you could see of them wasn't a look of hatred, but one of disappointment.
Travel to <designated system>
Travel to the <designated system> as instructed.
Your trip here was full of tension and anything but pleasant. Rather than find a seat normally, the <alien> stood close behind you in your cockpit with their arms crossed during most of the ride, almost as if they were an immovable boulder. Occasionally, you made attempts to communicate with them again to break the pressure, but the most they would give you is a slight glance or low grunt.
	As you descend into the atmosphere, you watch as layers of dark smog quickly reveal massive cities glittered with various lights towering into the sky. The ships here are of different shades than the ones you previously saw, being more tan than dark brown, and are in a much larger quantity. The intensity of traffic, combined with the overwhelming mass of infrastructure, suggests that this is the homeworld of the <alien>. Before getting lost in the fantastical sight in front you, the <alien> marches up next to you and raises one arm, gesturing to an enormous factory-like structure in the distance that stands out from other towers. You carefully guide your ship to the building and with the help of the <alien> find a suitable docking port to land on.
	After you touch down, several <aliens> that are of a similar appearance to the one next to you begin to line up in a formation towards your ship, all carrying various types of staff-like weaponry. However, they don't show any signs of aggression and simply hold their position in a coordinated display of might. The <alien> beside you gestures for their compass device they gave you earlier.
	(Hand them the device.)
	After fiddling with it, the <alien> marks a new location and presents it to you. "Oukeug," they say, and gesture you to depart in a fashion of urgency. They then leave your ship, walk towards the others, and have a brief discussion. A few moments later, another smaller group of <aliens> arrive with what looks to be some type of fueling device, and after a minute or so of fidgeting with it, they manage to hook it up to your ship. These <aliens> look shorter and thinner than the others, and wear more leather-like garments than heavy metal ones - but their demeanor is just as rigid. Once your ship's fuel has been filled, the <alien> that has been guiding you gestures towards the sky. It seems your visit to the mysterious <alien> homeworld will have to be cut short.
	After fiddling with it, the Vi marks a new location and presents it to you. "Oukeug," they say, and gesture you to depart in a fashion of urgency. You look at the location and notice that it's the Quarg ringworld you've previously visited. They then leave your ship, walk towards the others, and have a brief discussion. A few moments later, another smaller group of Gegno arrive with what looks to be some type of fueling device, and after a minute or so of fidgeting with it, they manage to hook it up to your ship. These Gegno look shorter and thinner than the others, and wear more leather-like garments than heavy metal ones - but their demenaor is just as rigid. Once your ship's fuel has been filled, the Gegno Vi that has been guiding you gestures towards the sky. It seems your visit to the mysterious Gegno homeworld will have to be cut short.
The Gegno are a humanoid species to the galactic east of the core, split amongst themselves into branches. One branch is the Gegno Vi, who are spoken of to be strong and forceful brutes. The other is the Gegno Scin, mentioned to be progressers of research and technology. Apart from them, a majority of the Gegno's population consists of complacent civilians.
After jumping through several systems of many alien ships, a Quarg ring world is a surprisingly familiar sight to you. From the looks of it, this is a fully complete ringworld, a true sight to behold. Trillions of Quarg probably inhabit this ring, but what's more interesting to your eye is that some other aliens are also present. They too are humanoid, and the most common figures you come across are either slightly above or below an average human's height. Their skin is a smooth, light gray, and adorned with different sorts of leather that remind you of medieval human clothing.
	The mood here is eerie as the Quarg here move in an unusually quiet manner. They are dismissive of the other species walking about, who are equally as dismissive of you. The strange atmosphere around you is finally broken when a few Quarg start to advance towards you, moving much quicker than the rest. After some unidentifiable discussion and gestures between themselves, one of them motions you to follow them.
The visual of a complete Quarg Ringworld is drastically different than the Gegno homeworld you were on before. Such a pristine, advanced structure is quite the opposite of the disorderly industry of Gegno civilisation. The population of Quarg here must be at least around the trillions, many times more than the population of the Gegno homeworld. What's even more interesting is there are other aliens of the kind you met before here on the ring too. The Quarg must have some kind of relations with them, perhaps through trade, maintenance, or other services. Despite them being present, the Quarg seem to be very dismissive of them. However, a few of the aliens occasionally glance over at you with hints of interest.
	Soon enough, a few Quarg start to rush towards you much faster than the others and begin a conversation between themselves. You aren't sure what language they are speaking, but judging by the tones and pronunciations, it sounds similar to the one you've heard the aliens speaking before. After a moment or so, one of them motions you to follow them.
	You walk with the Quarg, occasionally having trouble keeping pace with their silent yet brisk steps, as you head towards an area that appears devoid of the other aliens. Eventually, you are led to a smaller room with two more Quarg in waiting, silently sitting at the end of it. They talk, but this time you can hear a few familiar sounding terms, one being "Huema". Despite speaking to each other for several minutes, the Quarg still look at each other in what you assume is something like bewilderment.
	One of the Quarg waiting in the room finally turns towards you and motions you to take a seat. Its look of confusion disappears when they turn their gaze back upon you. Meanwhile, the other Quarg that was seated has left the room, along with the ones that first brought you here.
	"Is there a problem?"
	The Quarg continues to look at you and bows its head slightly in an apologetic manner, as it seems neither it, nor any other Quarg on this ringworld, can speak your language. You continue to patiently wait in the uneasy silence, withholding your curiosities as almost half an hour goes by.
	Finally, the silence is broken when the second Quarg from earlier enters the room again. This time, it glares at you much more energetically, and you begin to wonder if your presence really is an issue.
	You preemptively begin to stand up, but you are cut short when you see the second Quarg raise its arms outward in a gesture you never thought you'd see from a Quarg. "This must be for you an exhilarating day, young traverser. I strongly imagine this is a first for both of us." It is now obvious that this Quarg is not the same one from earlier, and you begin to see a few differences in its attire and figure. The upbeat rhythm to their speech is not something you would expect of a Quarg.
	The Quarg sits down across from you, still gesturing its arms about in a strange manner, albeit slower this time. "You have found yourself in the dwelling of the mighty Gegno, who have rooted their hardy empire here in the great galactic east."
	"You have astonishingly achieved a wondrous feat, brave traverser," the Quarg says, placing its hands together. It seems that the Quarg are already aware of your encounter on the alien homeworld. In fact, thinking back to it, the looks of interest earlier by other aliens suggests that the word got spread quickly. It then sits down across from you, then raises its arms outward in a gesture you never thought you'd see from a Quarg. "Not significantly often it is that the mighty Gegno interact with daring outsiders."
	"The Gegno?"
	"Do the ships I've seen around belong to these Gegno?"
	"Yes, the imperious Gegno. A juvenile race, they are, many decades younger than that of you humans. They do not find themselves in the struggle of leadership the same way as others do. Rather, they glorify their pursuit of guidance between one another to share a noble future." You wonder if the Quarg's use of boastful adjectives is because of gaps in his translations, or if they are intentionally speaking that way. Its voice still comes from the lower tones of Quarg speech, clashing with the excited pace it is speaking at.
	"What is this guidance they pursue?"
	"Indeed, the vessels of such stature represent the robust Gegno. Not in sorrow, but greatness do they pursue their future, bearing the fruit of sacrifice as a trophy to their name." The Quarg now shifts facial expressions in such a way to suggest a small hint of frustration.
	"Do the Gegno upset you in some way?"
	The Quarg now shifts facial expressions in such a way to suggest a small hint of frustration. "The Gegno believe it to be necessary to overwhelmingly sacrifice whatever must be, in order to imagine a grand future for themselves. Thus, they have separated into two different branches. One brandishes themselves as the honorable Vi - mightiest of warriors, toughest of kin. They are brutes that see proof of strength being the one and only variable in determining their path. That of the Scin, the more technologically able, believe that only through progression of sciences and discovery will the Gegno prosper."
	"The Gegno believe it to be necessary to sacrifice whatever must be, in order to imagine a future for themselves. Thus, they have separated into two different branches. One brandishes themselves as the honorable Vi - mightiest of warriors, toughest of kin. They are brutes that see proof of strength being the one and only variable in determining their path. That of the Scin, the more technologically able, believe that only through progression of sciences and discovery will the Gegno prosper."
	"The Vi are right, the strength to survive is more important than anything else."
	"The Scin are right, technological advancement opens up so many possibilities."
	"Why do they not combine their efforts to better their future together?"
	"While it is characteristic, such a tremendous proposition is rather dull for a marvelously growing species. Be that as it may, you humans follow this harsh doctrine, though to a much lesser degree than that of the Vi."
	The Quarg now shifts facial expressions in such a way to suggest a small hint of disappointment. "The pursuit of technology leaves behind many values important to a glorious species' growth, that of which we have seen plentifully."
	"Regrettably, most Gegno do not have a drive to pursue their principal future, diluting themselves far into their stagnant present. Segregation of followings was one of few ways to seek motivation beyond the fact."
	"Thank you for the information."
	"It seems that you do not like the paths they've chosen."
	The Quarg stands up, darting its gaze off to the side. The energy it exhibited earlier is gone. "It is not in our prosperous grasp to persuade the Gegno, as once we did attempt to. They would ensure conflict with us should we interfere, and we have no desire to witness an imperiled uprising of such a sort once more." It pauses, then gestures you to stand up as well.
	"Similarly, the Gegno do not wish to interact with audacious outsiders. Unfortunately, only a brief history of them we can tell. We cannot advocate virtuous pleasantries between you and them, though you are welcome at this ring should you find yourself here again. Please keep encounters with the Gegno minimal."
	"However, it is still quite staggering that the Gegno interacted with an audacious outsider such as yourself." The Quarg pauses for a moment and takes a longer breath than usual. "Please do be distinctly cautious in encounters with the Gegno. Unfortunately, we cannot advocate virtuous pleasantries between you and them. Only a brief history of them can we tell. Although, you are appreciably welcome at this ring should you find yourself here again."
	The Quarg motions a bow to you, and the first one from earlier escorts you out of the room. It seems associating with these so-called "Gegno" is very unlikely for you, and you will have to deal with their xenophobia for the foreseeable future.
Visit Quarg Ringworld
As soon as you land on this Quarg world, a few Quarg swiftly make their way to your ship. One of them stands in front of the rest and beckons you over while the others quietly speak to themselves in a language you've not heard before. The Quarg bows down slightly to speak to you, and judging by the look in its eyes, they seem rather perplexed. "Sdii veebyi keies Gegnion?" it asks, which seems to be the language the others were speaking in. Afterwords, it patiently waits for your response.
	(Try to speak to the Quarg.)
	You introduce yourself to the Quarg and then explain that you don't understand their language. It lifts itself back up slowly, seemingly pondering the situation before turning back to the others. After a few more exchanged words, one of the other Quarg walk off and fetch some sort of device, bringing it back to you. It appears to be some type of holographic map. The Quarg gestures to a system nearby, which then reveals a hologram of a Quarg Ringworld. "Ehsveet Duebyuarr Giaru, Aechman," it says, and then bows before you.
	You should probably go pay the ringworld a visit.
You arrive once more at Giaru Gegno, hoping to find another Quarg that speaks your language. This time, however, you notice that a few of the Gegno on this ringworld occasionally give you a look of interest as they walk by. After about a minute of this a pair of Quarg approach you, motioning you to follow them. Led back to the familiar room from before, the Quarg you previously spoke with is already calmly sitting at the other end of the table.
	"You have astonishingly achieved a wonderous feat, brave traverser," the Quarg says, placing its hands together. It seems the Quarg are already aware of your encounter on the alien homeworld. In fact, thinking back to it, the looks of interest you received earlier suggests that the word spread quickly. "Not significantly often it is the mighty Gegno interact with daring outsiders."
	"It was a coincidence."
	"They seemed in trouble when I found them, so I helped them."
	"Indeed yes, strange coincidences do curiously happen. Many coincidences are as mere fleeting moments of subtle peculiarity." The Quarg then displays a soft grimace. "Sometimes, one may be grand and powerful, in addition to having potent consequences. The Gegno have learned this a great number of times.
	"Quite a brave one you indeed are. Most would think to not leap into the daunting face of uncertainty as you have." The Quarg momentarily meditates on its next thought. "Though, as the Gegno have throughout their history, some may make monumentous jumps undeterred by any amount of hesitance."
	The Quarg raises from its seat, and you act in accordance. "Please do be distinctly cautious in your encounters with the Gegno. Always feel gracious to visit here once more, should you mindfully chose to do so." As you are directed out of the room, you turn back to see the Quarg bowing. You can't help but wonder what was on their mind during the conversation, but it might be for the best you are more careful from now on.
As soon as you land your ship, you receive an incoming hail from a Quarg that sounds very displeased. "It was incredibly unwise to engage in the unnecessary destruction of noncombatants belonging to a species not of your own. A species that is still learning from themselves is vulnerable to outside influence, and your aggressive actions against civilians of the Gegno have resulted in needless events."
	"It was an accident!"
	"What are you talking about?"
	"I do not care."
	"It is greatly unlikely for violence upon unarmed victims to be accidental. Regardless of the cause, the effect has already occurred. The Gegno have banded together under one flag in an effort to deter any more outside interference. You are no longer welcome in their space, and you are advised not to visit again, lest the Gegno show you the same belligerent behavior you have exhibited to their citizens."
	"Your behavior has caused the Gegno to unite their fleets and deter any more presence from outsiders. It is a great shame. The time they would use to resolve their inner conflicts is now wasted upon hostility towards strangers due to your naivety. You are no longer welcome in Gegno space, and if you dare visit again, the Gegno will demonstrate the same treatment you gave their citizens."
	The Quarg makes an unpleasant sound - one you have not heard from any Quarg before. "Should you be seen in Gegno space once more, expect the same sentiment."
reputation: Gegno Vi
reputation: Gegno Vi (Duelist A)
reputation: Gegno Vi (Duelist B)
You begin to receive numerous hails from Gegno Vi ships that are very aggravated in tone. It seems you've interrupted a tradition rather important to them, considering their ships are now appearing hostile on your radar.
Archons consider it to be their job to enforce peace and to prevent extinction. If they are unable to prevent a species from driving itself extinct, they will still try to preserve some of what that species created as a memorial to them.
They are capable of communicating telepathically.
A voice says, "This system is off limits. You should leave."
	After a second, you realize that the voice did not come from your communications equipment. In fact, now that you think about it, you're not sure if it was an audible voice, or just something in your head.
	"Why should I leave?"
	"You can't tell me what to do."
	"You should leave." The thought repeats itself, insistently. Either you're going crazy, or a creature is communicating with you telepathically.
	You feel as if a vast and patient creature has just heaved an immense sigh. "Human, you would do well not to ignore the warning of an Archon. I am here to warn off those who might be harmed by the swarm intelligence that infests this system. If you remain here long your ship will be digested by the swarm."
	You recall that "Archon" is what Drak ships are called.
	"What do you mean, 'digested'?"
	"What is a 'swarm intelligence'?"
	"I mean that your ship will be broken down into its component parts." You notice, as the voice says this, that your shields are registering small energy bursts, as if they are being struck by invisible weapons.
	"What is this swarm?" you ask.
	"Self-replicating miniature robots," the voice replies. "A weapon created by the Korath, the last of their great abominations. If you wish to feed your ship to the swarm, I will not stop you, but they already possess enough raw material here without your assistance." The voice's tone, inasmuch as a disembodied imaginary voice can be said to have a tone, is sardonic.
	"Okay, okay, I'll get out of here."
	"Wait, I have more questions."
	"Yes?"
	You ask, "Why don't you just destroy the swarm, if it is so dangerous?"
	The voice says, "Because if the Korath manage to drive themselves extinct, this intelligence will be their last and greatest surviving creation, and we will preserve it as a living memorial to them. Please do not interfere here." When the voice speaks the phrase, "drive themselves extinct," the words are accompanied by an emotion that you cannot put a name to.
	Also, the empty space around your ship is beginning to light up with small sparks, like an angry swarm of fireflies.
	"Well, it's an honor to meet you. I'll be leaving now."
	"Why do you care if they go extinct?"
	"Our directive is to enforce peace and prevent extinction," says the voice. As before, the words "prevent extinction" echo loud in your mind as if underlined by a nameless emotion. "Now, enough questions," says the voice.
	The presence inside your head seems to fall away, and you are left talking to thin air.
The Archon's presence is chilling. The "ship" has an almost organic appearance, but your ship's scanners give you no discernible information on its construction. What exactly it is you do not know, but you can feel that it is powerful.
This is a thruster that can produce force in any direction, allowing a Drak ship to keep a safe distance away from its target.
This device is the Archon's primary defensive tool: Not only does it disrupt the shields and energy supplies of all hostile ships within it, it also exerts a powerful repelling force that keeps ships from closing in with the Archon.
	While normally kept at minimal strength, the Archons have demonstrated the ability to ramp up the field to be vastly stronger when faced with a serious threat.
This device produces a field that destroys any missiles that come within it.
	This level of anti-missile effectiveness is required only when dealing with the most powerful of threats.
This is a turret based cannon with significant range and accuracy.
	Against most threats, Archons respond with their weapons set to very low levels. They are, however, more than capable of dealing much more damage when the situation requires it.
This is the most powerful weapon that the Archons deign to utilize in the presence of the younger races.
This is the most powerful weapon that the Archons deign to utilize in the presence of the younger races. Hitherto unknown as Archons are rarely pushed to the point of needing to use more than their minimum abilities, the Antimatter Cannon is capable of far more damage than originally thought.
It is unclear what these creatures are, where they come from, or how they evolved. Scientists have dissected several, but so far the results have simply been that these creatures contain no materials or resources of value; are not even slightly edible, and are too big to be kept as pets.
	To date, none have demonstrated any sign of sapience, and the few captains who have seen them basically consider them to be the bison of space.
The void sprites are an enigmatic species under the watchful gaze of the Archon originally discovered in the Nenia system. The species' connection is unknown, but the Archon seem particularly protective of them.
This is the immature form of the void sprite. While they typically rely on their tendrils and natural buoyancy to fly within atmospheres, they have demonstrated the unusual ability to manipulate gravitational fields to propel themselves off-world.
This unusual creature, first spotted in Postverta, seems to have an affinity for void sprites and is usually found close to them. This 'Ember Waste Node,' as it is being called, bears a superficial resemblance to void sprites but is clearly a different species. The Node demonstrates an ability to manipulate energy fields to create shield-like structures around itself. Most remarkably, it has been seen appearing and disappearing with an energy signature reminiscent of jump drives.
Although the Node's cloaking power is believed to be connected to its other energy manipulation abilities, the exact method is unknown.
Long regarded as mere ghost stories, the ray-like Embershades have finally been proven to exist thanks to recent generations of ion storm resistant sensor suites. Shy by nature, these creatures generate a natural cloaking field and prefer to move unseen.
Ember Ray.
Strange
Novel
Unrecognized
Exotic
Unidentified
Unresolved
Entity
Creature
Being
Lifeform
Organism
Thing
These are tiny space creatures that feed on solar energy, storing it into two receptors found at the front of their bodies. They are extremely docile, and are found in large groups, almost never seen alone.
Oddly shaped like a boomerang, these space creatures are in a constant rotary motion caused by a small internal organ. The motion provides a natural defense against small debris and projectiles that threaten to intercept the creature, which is harmless otherwise.
This species of space life is found around hotter stars and feeds on solar energy, storing it in four organs that give off the appearance of eyes. Due to all of the internal energy and pressure, these creatures explode violently upon death, which may surprise aggressors.
Only few captains have had the chance to observe this illustrious creature. Its natural attenuation to the depths of space allows it to travel beyond where most ships are able, and its appearance reflects both the beauty and mystery of the void itself.
Pirate Reconnaissance
Fly through the <waypoints> systems, then report to <destination> so the Southern Mutual Defense Pact can analyze your logs of pirate activity (if any).
You can't help noticing that the freighter parked next to the <ship> is in very bad shape, its hull pockmarked with blaster scars, as well as larger dents that may be from missiles. The crew and a number of men in militia uniforms are busy welding new hull plating onto it; the captain is having an animated conversation with a young female militia officer.
	(Approach them and find out what happened.)
	(Ignore them.)
	You overhear enough of the conversation to figure out that the freighter was attacked by pirates, and the militia are helping to get it in working condition again. "A little spit shine and it'll look as good as new," the officer says, but the captain of the ship doesn't look convinced and walks up to his ship to work on it alongside the crew.
	The militia officer glances over her shoulder and, having spotted you listening in, waves you over. "No need to be shy," she says. "I'm guessing you're not from around here."
	"How can you tell?"
	"Are the pirates rough around these parts?"
	"Because captains from around here don't rubberneck at an every-day occurrence. After seeing your first dozen or so damaged ships, you eventually get used to seeing them and just move on."
	"Are the pirates rough around these parts?" you ask.
	"Rougher than you're probably used to if you're from farther up north. The Navy doesn't patrol these parts, not unless there's some high profile warlord that's on their radar. Because of that, pirates have more free reign to terrorize us down here." She pauses for a moment while turning back to the freighter. "And the pirate fleets keep getting stronger every year," she says with concern.
	"Is there something I can do to help?"
	"I wish I could help, but my ship is not a warship."
	"There is indeed," she says. "Have you heard of the Southern Mutual Defense Pact?"
	"There are other ways you could help us," she says. "Have you heard of the Southern Mutual Defense Pact?"
	"No. What is it?"
	She says, "We're a collection of worlds that have decided that since the Navy doesn't patrol this part of the galaxy anymore, it's up to us to keep the pirates in check. The idea is that if the pirates ever try something big, like capturing an entire planet, that planet can call on the entire Pact to assist them. And, as you can see, we also do our fair share of helping out the local merchants where we can."
	"Sounds like a good idea," you say.
	"The Pact is launching a new initiative, led by myself," she says. "We're calling it the 'Thousand Eyes.' We're asking merchant ship captains to let us access their scanner logs, basically using merchants as a surveillance network. You don't have to fight the pirates, just let us know if you see them. Interested?"
	"Sure, I would be glad to help."
	"Sorry, sounds too risky."
	"Great!" she says. "Right now, we need more eyes on a few systems on the edge of Southern space. All you need to do is fly through those systems, then report to our base on <destination>. I'll mark the target systems on your ship's map for you. And by the way, the name's Freya Winters."
	"<first> <last>," you respond, shaking her hand.
	"Nice to meet you, Captain <last>. Glad to have another helping hand. I'll be heading to <planet> after I've finished my business on <origin>, so see you there."
When you land on <planet>, you're approached by Freya Winters. She gives you <payment> in exchange for your scanner logs of the Southern systems. "Thank you, Captain. I pray the pirates didn't give you too much trouble," she says. "I'll be in touch when we've got a new assignment for you, assuming you're still interested."
You receive a message from Freya, the militia officer in charge of tracking pirate activity. "Hello, Captain <last>. I pray you're still interested in being a part of our Thousand Eyes program. We need some more intel on the empty systems in the middle of the Dirt Belt," she says. "Pay would be a bit better than last time, since these systems are a bit more out of the way. As with before, return to <destination> once you're finished."
You transfer your sensor logs to Freya. She thanks you for your work and pays you <payment>. "I'll let you know when we need your services again," she says.
You receive another message from Freya: "Hello, Captain! I've got a more challenging and lucrative mission for you this time. We need someone to do a flyby of all four pirate systems here in the South, to gauge their strength. Again, no fighting is required, just fly in and out of the systems as fast as possible, and we're willing to pay much more than the last job given the danger involved. What do you say?"
Freya Winters meets up with you in person soon after you land. "Glad to see you're still in one piece. I pray you didn't have much trouble," she says, as she hands you a credit chip for <payment>. "You've been a great help to us. I'll be sure to contact you next time we need a scout."
Fly through the <waypoints> systems, searching for a gathering pirate fleet. Report to the Pact on <destination> when you are done.
Once again, you receive a message from Freya Winters. "We have another mission for you," she says, "this one a bit more dangerous. We've heard rumors of a pirate fleet amassing in one of the seldom-visited systems in the Dirt Belt, and we need to know where they are. Interested in helping to track them down? As before, you don't need to fight, just observe them."
You report to Freya that you found a sizable pirate fleet in the Naper system, as well as spotting some pirates elsewhere. She thanks you, and pays you <payment>. "Thank you for your assistance," she says. "Again, I'll be in touch if we need you."
As you are walking through the spaceport, a middle-aged man in a Navy uniform walks up to you and says, "Excuse me, Captain <last>. I would like to speak with you for a few minutes."
	"Okay."
	"Sorry, I'm really busy right now."
	"Unfortunately, this cannot wait," he responds as he pulls you aside from the crowd.
	"Am I correct that you have been assisting the Southern Mutual Defense Pact?"
	"Am I correct that you performed some missions for the Southern Mutual Defense Pact, back before they became the Free Worlds?"
	His voice is very friendly, and he is not armed or accompanied by any other officers that you can see, so it doesn't seem like you are in trouble or in danger of being arrested - especially since your work for the Pact was perfectly legal.
	"I don't know what you are talking about."
	"I did take a few jobs helping out the local militias, yes."
	"Yes, I ran several missions for the Pact."
	"I'm sorry, but I don't want to talk to you about that."
	He has been looking intently into your eye, and when you lie to him, he frowns. "It really isn't necessary to lie to me," he says. You are not sure what to say in response, so you remain quiet.
	"Tell me," he says, "was there one particular militia officer who you reported to, or was it someone different every time?" As he is speaking, you look for clues of who he is or why he is questioning you, and you notice something very odd. All Navy personnel you have encountered in the past have a name badge on their lapel and rank insignia on their collar, but his uniform is entirely blank.
	"I don't remember anyone's name in particular."
	"I would rather not name any names."
	"I usually reported to an officer named Freya Winters."
	"I don't want to talk about this. I'm leaving."
	"Oh well," he says, "it was worth asking. Would you at least be willing to tell me the nature of the missions you were performing?"
	"Ah yes, Miss Winters," he says. "A very capable woman, although she's more skilled as an engineer than as a leader. Can you tell me what sort of work you were performing for her?"
	"Who are you? Why are you asking me these questions?"
	"Reconnaissance missions, tracking pirate movements."
	"Sorry, I'm done talking to you."
	"Are you certain your reconnaissance was only targeted at pirates?" he asks. "Did they collect only your logs on pirate ships, or on every ship you saw?"
	"I honestly don't know."
	"I think it was only the pirate ships."
	"I just gave them all my logs. I'm not sure what parts of them they ended up using."
	"I see," he says. "I wonder why they didn't share more of the details of their work with you."
	"Why are you asking me all these questions?" you say.
	"I'm just collecting information," he says. "Anything you tell me is interesting to me." Then, with a mischievous grin, he adds, "Anything you refuse to tell me is also interesting. Anyway, I won't detain you any longer. Thank you for your time." He smiles and walks away. You are left with no idea of what is going on.
	"Understood," he says. "Thank you for your time." He makes no effort to detain you. As you walk away, you glance over your shoulder a few times to make sure you are not being watched or followed, but see no one.
Transport Militia Officer
Transport a Free Worlds militia officer to <destination>.
A man approaches you in the spaceport. "Hello. Would you be able to give me a lift to <destination>? I'd be able to pay you <payment>." You notice that he is dressed in a militia uniform.
	"Sure, I'd be glad to help!"
	"Sorry, I'm busy with something else right now."
	"Are you connected to the Free Worlds?"
	"Yes, I'm an officer in their militia." The man takes a half step back. "Is that a problem?"
	"Sorry, I really don't want to assist the rebels."
	"No problem at all. I'd be glad to help with your cause!"
	"Not a problem, but I'm afraid I don't have space for you right now."
You land on <planet>, but you realize that the militia officer is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
The militia officer thanks you for the ride and pays you <payment>. As he is leaving, he says, "If you're interested in doing more work for us, head to the spaceport bar and find my commander. I'll tell him to keep an eye out for you."
Free Worlds Reconnaissance
Perform an outfit scan on the Cruiser <npc>, then report to a Free Worlds officer on <destination>.
When you walk into the spaceport bar, a man in a militia uniform flags you down, and says, "Captain <last>. One of my officers told me to keep an eye out for you. Would you be willing to do another small service for the Free Worlds?"
	"Perhaps. What do you want me to do?"
	"Sorry, I want no part in your rebellion."
	"It's a rather simple matter," he says. "Most of the Republic ships that have come through this system seem to be outfitted for surveillance, not combat. But there is one in orbit right now, the <npc>, that seems to be equipped as a warship. Would you be willing to scan its outfits and report to us what you find? The oufitter stocks scanners if you don't have one, though you might want to install a few of them to improve performance. We will pay <payment>."
	"Sure, that sounds simple enough."
	"Why can't you scan the ship yourself?"
	"Sorry, I don't want to assist rebels."
	"I'm sure you understand the... tensions between the Free Worlds and the Republic at the moment. We're just trying to look out for ourselves, but we don't want to provoke anything with the Navy. It'd be much simpler if we could get a sympathetic merchant to scan the ship for us."
	"Sounds reasonable enough. I'll do it."
	"Sorry, but that sounds too risky for me to get involved in."
As soon as you scan the <npc> its captain hails you. "Excuse me, captain," he says, "can I assist you with something?"
	"I was just wondering what sort of engines you've got that let you move so fast."
	"Never mind sir, I was just admiring your... impressive equipment."
	"Nice, aren't they?" he says. "Atomic engines, the very latest in propulsion technology from Deep Sky. They're so smooth and responsive, I feel like I'm back piloting a shuttlecraft again."
	He pauses, then adds, "They pay me a thousand credits every time I say that."
	He looks awfully pleased with himself. "Yes, I suppose a ship like this is sure to turn a few heads. Next time we're on the same planet, stop by my berth and I'd be glad to give you a... private tour." He winks at you. You feel a little bit creepy.
	You cut the commlink and breathe a sigh of relief that the conversation is over.
You land on <planet>, but you haven't yet scanned the Navy Cruiser patrolling the system. Depart and scan the Cruiser's outfits before returning.
Soon after you land, the militia captain comes to your ship and pays you <payment> in exchange for your sensor logs regarding the <npc>. He says, "If you would be interested in continuing to work for us, meet me in the spaceport bar in an hour."
Scan any ships in the <waypoints> system that are equipped like the combat-ready Cruiser you scanned previously, then return to <destination>.
You meet up with the militia captain in the spaceport bar. "Glad you showed up," he says, "I'm Jean-Jacques, by the way, but you can call me JJ."
	You introduce yourself in return, and he continues. "Here's the deal. I'm the commander of the militia on Glaze. So far, we and the Navy are not shooting at each other, because no one wants to fire the first shot. But if they're getting ready to change that, they'll start refitting their Cruisers with heavy weaponry instead of surveillance equipment. So, I need to know how many more of their ships are equipped like the one you just scanned."
	He continues, "I'd like you to go to <waypoints>, where our reports say there's a build-up of Navy ships. Scan any ships you think match the Cruiser we just saw, then bring your scanner logs back here for me to look at."
	"Sure, I'd be glad to do that."
	"Sorry, after the way this last captain responded to me scanning him, I'm not sure I want to risk it again."
You've scanned all the ships you can find here that seem to be upgraded for combat. Time to return to <planet> to collect your payment.
You land on <planet>, but you haven't yet scanned the Navy Cruisers patrolling Menkent. Depart and scan the Cruisers' outfits before returning.
JJ meets you as soon as you land, and you hand over the scanner data in exchange for <payment>. "Thank you again," he says. "If you're willing to take on one more recon mission, meet me in the bar."
Land on <destination> and secretly collect information on the developing Navy base there.
You meet JJ again in the bar. "I have one more reconnaissance mission for you," he says. "The Navy is building a base on New Wales, adjacent to the existing spaceport. From what I understand, they're employing thousands of locals to build it, so one more worker walking around would not seem out of place. I need you to walk around the base, take notes on the number and size of the landing pads and hangars, take pictures if you can, and report back to me. What do you say?"
	"Sure, I can do that."
	"What if they arrest me?"
	"From what I understand," says JJ, "the base is not actually closed off to civilians. So as long as you keep out of any areas that are marked off limits, you won't be committing any crime."
	"Okay, I'll do it."
	"Sorry, I've decided I don't really want to side with the Free Worlds."
	"I'm really sorry to hear that," says JJ. "We had high hopes for you."
Return to <destination> with information on the Navy base on <origin>.
You walk through the new section of the spaceport that the Navy is building, trying to look inconspicuous. When it seems that no one is watching, you snap a few photographs. You count seven hangars large enough to house a Carrier, and workers are clearing and blasting level surfaces for many more. An entire new village of identical prefabricated houses has sprung up nearby. And every few minutes, a warship flies overhead with a roar that shakes the entire mountain. It is an intimidating sight.
	As you are heading back to your ship after taking note of everything you think JJ would be interested in, two officers walk past you and you overhear one saying to the other, "Secret message from fleet command."
	You stop to tie your shoe and try to listen in. "What's the message?" asks the other.
	"I can't tell you here," says the first, and they duck behind one of the storage sheds.
	(Ignore them and return to my ship.)
	(Follow them and listen in.)
	You follow the officers into a supply yard and hide behind a large stack of crates. "Lieutenant," says one of them, "we just received word that the Free Worlds have contracted with someone to spy on this facility."
	"A professional, sir?"
	"Hardly. My grandmother would make a better spy. It's a merchant captain, clearly an amateur." They are both speaking quite loudly; you are having no trouble listening in.
	"What are we going to do, sir?" asks the lieutenant.
	"Nothing. If gawking at our ships were a crime, we'd have half the local population in prison by now. But if this captain should accept any further assignments, we may have to take action."
	"Should we at least inform this individual that those crates make terrible cover?" asks the lieutenant, grinning.
	"Now, now," says the other officer, "no need to be spiteful." They walk off, leaving you thoroughly embarrassed.
A minute after you land, a Republic Gunboat, the <npc>, lands directly next to you. JJ does not approach you. You notice from your ship's logs that this Gunboat has been following you ever since you left <origin>; before you can hand over the information, you will need to escape its pursuit.
JJ meets you as soon as you land. "Good job evading that Navy Gunboat," he says.
	"Gunboat? What Gunboat?"
	"I knew I had a feeling that I was being followed."
	"You didn't notice? I have scouts that report that you were being followed by a Gunboat by the name of the <npc> ever since you left <origin>. Keeping an eye on where you were going, no doubt.
	"They knew I was gathering information on the base. It's no wonder they had someone following me."
	"How did they know I was involved with you?"
	"The Republic's intelligence gathering capabilities are vast, far beyond anything we can muster. I can only guess how they knew you were involved and kept an eye on you."
	"What should I do now that the Republic is watching me?"
	"Knowing that, how can you possibly expect to stand up against the Republic?"
	"Keep your head low. You're compromised, so I can't ask you to do any more recon work for us. So long as you don't cause them any trouble, they'll likely eventually leave you alone. We have a great number of merchants helping us, and as capable as the Republic is, they can only keep a close eye on so many people at a time."
	"I pray that we don't have to," JJ responds. "We're currently attempting to prove our innocence for the bombings on Geminus and Martini. But should it come to war, if we get continued help from merchants such as yourself, then, God willing, we might just stand a chance. While the Republic may be strong, they're not omnipotent."
	JJ takes the information and photos you gathered and pays you <payment> in return. "I'll be sure to let the rest of the Free Worlds Council know how helpful you have been."
	"What are you going to do with this information?"
	"Free Worlds Council? What's that?"
	"Full of questions, aren't we?" JJ chuckles. "We will not attack this naval base, so you don't need to worry about anyone being hurt by your actions today. But should the Free Worlds and the Republic go to war, information will be a vital resource, including the information that you've provided me, so thank you for that.
	"Full of questions, aren't we?" JJ chuckles. "The Council is a collection of leaders born out of what used to be the Southern Mutual Defense Pact. It includes myself and a few others. We are currently responsible for commanding the militias of the Free Worlds, and should it come to it, we will be the commanding officers in a war with the Republic.
	"Now if you'll excuse me, Captain, I have other work to attend to," JJ says. "If you wish to continue helping us, I'm sure there are others who could call upon you if you go looking for them."
Free Worlds Escort
Head to <destination> to meet up with a convoy of Free Worlds freighters.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man in a militia uniform approaches you. Judging by the markings on his uniform, you suspect that he is very highly ranked within the militia.
	"Captain <last>?" he asks. You nod. "Glad to finally meet you. I'm Tomek Voigt, commanding officer of the Free militias. I have officers and friends who have spoken very highly of you. They tell me that you've gone to great lengths to help us. I thank you for that."
	"Oh, it was nothing. Just helping people out where I can."
	"I've gone to great lengths because I believe you have a great cause."
	"I'm just looking to get paid, and the Free Worlds pays well."
	Tomek raises an eyebrow. "A no nonsense captain, I see. Well if it's pay you're looking for, I have another job for you on behalf of the Free Worlds.
	Tomek smiles. "A humble captain, I see. Well, if you're just looking to help people out, I have another job for you on behalf of the Free Worlds.
	Tomek grins. "Ah, a fellow freedom fighter. Always glad to see more captains earnestly joining the cause. I have another job for you on behalf of the Free Worlds.
	"We're looking for ships to help escort a freighter convoy that is traveling to Tarazed to pick up supplies. Our last few convoys have been attacked by pirates, and we suspect this one will be as well. We already have a few captains on the job, but we could always use more help. Are you interested?"
	"Sure, I'd be glad to assist in the escort."
	"What sort of supplies?"
	"Sorry, but that's not the type of work I'm looking for."
	"Outfits, weapons, and other miscellaneous materials needed for the manufacturing of new ships. The Free Worlds is looking to bolster its forces, and we're already using as much of our local industry as we can, so we've begun importing materials from companies that aren't concerned with dealing with what the Republic labels a 'terrorist organization,'" Tomek says with a smirk.
	"Well, then I'd be glad to help."
	"Great!" he says. "The convoy will start from <destination> once all the escorts have arrived. I suggest you head there immediately."
Escort a Free Worlds supply convoy safely to <destination>.
You meet up with the convoy on <origin> in the spaceport: six freighters with an escort of... seven interceptors. Given how prevalent piracy is in this region and how strong some pirate fleets can be, you would have expected a larger escort, but it seems that this is all the Free Worlds is capable of mustering at the moment. It's no wonder they're asking merchant captains such as yourself to lend a hand.
	Shortly after you arrive, the convoy is ready to go and charts a course for <destination>.
You have reached <planet>, but you left part of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Escort the supply convoy safely to <destination> back in Free Worlds territory.
Your convoy of freighters reaches <origin> intact, despite numerous encounters with pirates. The escort of interceptors was just enough to hold them off. The merchant captains sell their trade goods and stock up with weapons and ship outfits that will be used to build new ships for the Free Worlds.
	Before you leave, a Free Worlds militia officer who you didn't arrive with approaches you, saying that he's finished doing business with the Tarazed Corporation and will join the convoy back to <planet>. The officer is commanding a Falcon, a much more formidable warship than your group of interceptors. Which is good, since, now that the freighters are carrying much more valuable cargo, the pirate attacks are likely to get even worse...
Upon returning with the freighters, you are once again met by Tomek. He thanks you and the other escort captains for your service, and pays you each <payment>. "The convoy is heading out again immediately," he says, "so meet me in the spaceport if you are willing to volunteer for escort duty again. Same pay."
A few of the escort pilots, yourself included, have stuck around for another mission, and luckily a few new faces have joined in as well. Tomek meets you in the spaceport and says, "You know the drill. Escort the freighters to <planet> and back. 400,000 credits for your troubles. Plus, please believe that all of you are known to the Council, and your bravery will not be forgotten. We can't afford to lose any of these freighters. Who's willing to help escort them?"
	(Volunteer.)
	(Go find some other work to do.)
	"Great!" says Tomek. "Good luck to all of you, and I pray to see you all safely back here in a couple of weeks."
Once again, the convoy stocks up on weapons and outfits and begins preparing for the return journey. But unfortunately, there's no militia officer with a warship here to reinforce you this time. You can't help worrying that the longer these convoys keep running, the more pirates will discover their route and begin setting ambushes for them.
Again, Tomek Voigt meets you and the rest of the convoy at the spaceport, thanks you all for your courage and dedication, and pays you each <payment>. Then, he pulls you aside and says, "Captain <last>, if you're interested in helping us further, please meet me in the spaceport bar."
Stranded Freighter
Repair the <npc>, which is stranded in the <waypoints> system, and escort it safely back to <destination>.
When you walk into the bar, Tomek looks very glad to see you. "Here's the deal," he says. "One of our freighters, the <npc>, was just disabled in the <waypoints> system. We need you to fly there immediately, repair it, and bring it back here before it can be captured by pirates. Do you think you're up to the task?"
	"Sorry, I'm just a merchant captain. The Free Worlds shouldn't be asking me to do combat missions."
	"Glad to hear it," he says. "The crew of that freighter is depending on you. I know I don't have to tell you what will happen to them if pirates board them before you get there, so get moving quickly."
You've returned to <planet>, but the <npc> is not with you. If you have not repaired it yet, travel to <waypoints> to do so, or take off wait for it to arrive in this system if you already have.
Tomek is immensely relieved to see the <npc> returned safely home. "You have done us a great service today, Captain," he says, as he hands you credit chips for <payment>. "I'll be sure to let the rest of the Council know how helpful you have been, and I pray we can call on you in the future."
	"I'll be ready to answer the call whenever it comes."
	"What exactly is the Council?"
	Tomek pauses to think for a moment. "Before there was the Free Worlds, there was the Southern Mutual Defense Pact, little more than a defense agreement between the worlds that now comprise the Free Worlds. Any group needs leadership, and the Council is what was once the leadership of the Pact.
	"We've retained all our powers that we held under the Pact, being the organizers and commanding officers of the various militias of the Free Worlds. With the Free Worlds having declared itself as a formal government and with tensions with the Republic so high, however, the militias are now obligated to answer to the Council as an emergency power, as opposed to the prior agreement where worlds could refuse to answer to the Pact if, for whatever reason, they chose not to.
	"But the Council is only a transitional organization; upon the establishment of the Free Worlds Senate, which is already in the works, the Council will be dissolved and all its responsibilities moved to the Senate.
	"Does that answer your question?" Tomek asks.
	"It does," you say. "Thank you."
Second Chance
Return to <destination> to meet up with Tomek Voigt and see if he will forgive you for failing the escort mission he gave you.
Soon after you exit your ship a man approaches you. "Captain <last>?" he asks. You nod. "My name is Alondo," he says. "I'm a member of the Free Worlds Council. Katya speaks so highly of you that I would like to see you officially join us as a part of the Free Worlds militia, even though you messed up that escort mission that was given to you."
	"Yes, I'm very sorry about that."
	"Sorry, but I decided I don't want to assist the Free Worlds anyway."
	"I'm sure," he says, "but I'm not the one you need to say that to. Right now Tomek is refusing to let us offer you a job, but if you speak with him in person, he might change his mind. Or he might not. But if you really want to work for us, you should visit him on <planet>, take full responsibility for what happened, and apologize. Just a suggestion." He walks off.
Nervously, you contact Tomek and ask if he would be willing to meet with you. After a long pause, he says, "Okay. Meet me at the cantina in fifteen minutes." You wait for about twenty minutes before he finally shows up and says, without preamble, "Now, what do you have to say for yourself?"
	"I take full responsibility for the loss of that freighter. I'm sorry."
	"There was really nothing I could have done against so many pirates."
	"I'm sorry for what happened. It won't happen again."
	He doesn't look entirely satisfied with that response. "I had to write letters to five different families telling them why their son or daughter or husband had been killed on a routine cargo mission. You promised to keep them safe, and you failed. You understand that, right?"
	"Well, space is a dangerous place. Bad things happen. I can't stop that."
	"Yes, I know that I failed, and I'm very sorry for their loss."
	"That is not an appropriate response," he says. "If we offer you a mission, we have to be able to trust that you will complete it, with no excuses. I'm sorry, but I have no interest in working with you in the future. Goodbye, Captain." He walks away.
	"If we offer you a mission in the future," he says, "we have to be able to trust that you will complete it. No excuses, no second tries. Do you understand?" You nod. "Fine," he says, with a long sigh. "Katya said she trusts you, so I'll give you a second chance this one time. But please try to be more responsible in the future, okay?"
	"I will. Thank you for giving me a second chance, sir."
	"I'll try my best."
	He shakes your hand and leaves, without ordering anything to drink. You get the feeling that he still does not think very highly of you.
assisted free worlds
Free Worlds Bounty Hunting
Hunt down and destroy the "Rat Pack," a gang of pirate ships led by a flagship named "Cluny" who have been attacking freighters in Free Worlds space. They were last seen attacking freighters in the Seginus system.
As you walk through the spaceport, a woman in a militia uniform approaches you. "Are you Captain <last>?" she asks. You nod. "I'm a commander of the local militia," she says. "There's a pirate fleet that has attacked freighters in this sector several times in the last few months, but now it seems they've moved outside of Free space. I'd like to strike at them before they return and do more damage here, but right now the Free Worlds Council won't allow militia ships to be used for preemptive attacks, so instead we're looking to enlist the help of a merchant captain, and I was told that you're a formidable pilot."
	"Well, I'd be glad to destroy them for you."
	"How powerful of a fleet do these pirates have?"
	"How much will you be paying me to take out this fleet?"
	"Sorry, I don't want to have anything to do with the Free Worlds."
	"Well they aren't exactly a powerful fleet. They're just a collection of interceptors, but they're numerous and swift enough that we've had trouble taking them down before they can run or swarm our larger ships. We can pay you <payment> if you can take them out."
	"Just a group of interceptors? That should be no problem for me to destroy."
	"If you can't take them out then I don't know how I will. You're on your own."
	"Since these pirates have been particularly troublesome, we've placed a bounty of <payment> on their heads. Take them out for us and those credits are all yours."
	"That sounds reasonable enough. Okay, I'll destroy them for you."
	"Only <payment>? You're going to need to find someone else for the job."
	"Excellent," she says. "They call themselves the 'Rat Pack,' and you'll recognize them because most of their ships are named after various vermin, although for some unknown reason their flagship is just named 'Cluny.' They were last seen in the Seginus system, just northeast of Free space, so they'll probably be within a jump or two of there. Thank you in advance for your help."
The "Rat Pack" has been eliminated. You can claim the bounty payment by returning to <destination>.
The militia officer who asked you to hunt down the "Rat Pack" arrives at your ship soon after you land and thanks you profusely. "Now we won't have to worry about them bothering ships in this sector anymore." She pays you the bounty of <payment> and says she'll tell other militia leaders how helpful you were.
A Free Worlds militia officer from <destination> asked you to hunt down the <npc>, a pirate ship last seen in the Delta Sagittarii system. The militia officer suggested trying to attack the ship from a distance.
A Free Worlds officer waves to you as you are walking through the spaceport. "Hello Captain <last>," he says. "I've heard you've helped us in the past to deal with pirate threats. Interested in another bounty hunting mission?"
	"What will it be this time?"
	"Sure, I do love destroying pirates!"
	"Sorry, I'm way too busy right now."
	"There's a retrofitted heavy freighter by the name of <npc> that has been stealing large amounts of cargo from our supply convoys. It was last seen in the Delta Sagittarii system. Be warned that this ship is a tough one, fitted with more Heavy Lasers than I've ever seen anyone install on a single ship, but it's slow as a sloth, so you might be able to hit it from afar. The bounty on it is <payment>."
	"Sounds like this shouldn't be too difficult. I'm in."
	"I could handle a group of interceptors, but this sounds like too much for me. You'll have to find someone else."
	He grins. "Glad to hear you're on board. Good luck, Captain."
	He grins. "Your target is a retrofitted heavy freighter by the name of <npc> that has been stealing large amounts of cargo from our supply convoys. It was last seen in the Delta Sagittarii system. Be warned that this ship is a tough one, fitted with more Heavy Lasers than I've ever seen anyone install on a single ship, but it's slow as a sloth, so you might be able to hit it from afar. Good luck, Captain."
The militia officer who asked you to hunt down the <npc> meets you in the spaceport and pays you <payment>. "Once again, thank you for assisting us," he says.
A Free Worlds militia officer from <destination> asked you to hunt down the <npc>, a powerful pirate ship last seen in the Shaula system.
Once again, as you are walking through the spaceport a Free Worlds officer flags you down. "We've got another bounty hunting mission for you," he says. "This one is a bit more dangerous; this pirate ship has weapons we've never seen before, that may be alien in origin. Interested in helping us to destroy it?"
	"Yes, I'm sure my ship will be up to the challenge."
	"Alien in origin? What sort of weapons does it have?"
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in giving the Free Worlds more assistance."
	"It has a pair of strange cannons that seem to interfere with a ship's electrical systems, draining its power and causing its weapons to malfunction. It's similar to those lasers the Quarg have, which is why we think the weapons are alien technology."
	"Well you came to the right person. I'll take it out for you."
	"Sorry, but that sounds like a job for someone else."
	"Great," he says. "Your target is named the <npc>. After we nearly destroyed it, we think it went to the Shaula system to hide out, which means that you'll probably have to deal with other pirates at the same time. Good luck, Captain."
The militia officer who asked you to hunt down the <npc> contacts you soon after you land. "You've done us a great service," he says. "I'll be telling the Council how helpful you were." He hands you a payment of <payment>.
Assist the Free Worlds
Stop by <destination>, pick up two passengers and some cargo, and distract the Republic from a more important cargo exchange going on simultaneously.
Wandering through the spaceport, you have stopped for a moment to read the menu posted in front of a restaurant, when your thoughts are interrupted by the click of a gun being cocked right behind your head, and a woman's voice saying, "Think fast, Captain."
	(Do this karate move I saw in a video one time.)
	(Raise my hands slowly into the air and find out what she wants.)
	"Good choice," she says. "Now, turn around, slowly, and don't try any funny business. I've got a semiautomatic pistol pointed right at your head."
	(Now, try that karate move.)
	You turn around and find yourself facing a woman in a Free Worlds uniform. The chevrons on her collar mark her as some sort of officer. She is grinning at you. "Beautifully done, Captain," she says. "Such restraint. Such remarkable levelheadedness. Not something I often see around here. If this thing were loaded, quite a few backcountry rubes in the last few months would've had their brains blown open before I could even get around to recruiting them." She lowers the gun.
	"You mean this was some sort of test? You're not trying to mug me?"
	(Try that karate move, just for kicks.)
	You make a grab for the gun. A second later she's got your arm twisted behind your back, using just enough force to make it clear that things could get really painful if you continue to struggle. "Smart, and playful too," she says, "I like that. But, it'll be a cold day in hell before a kid like you gets the drop on me. Now, shall we talk?" She lets go of you, and you shake out your arm gingerly.
	"I need a civilian for some courier work," she says. "Nothing illegal, at least nothing the Republic can pin on you. It just needs to be done by a ship that isn't flying our colors, and by a captain who isn't going to scream, 'Death to all tyrants!' and go in with guns blazing the first time your cargo gets scanned. What do you say?"
	"I'm not sure I'm ready to pick sides in this war, yet."
	"Why would I help a group of terrorists?"
	"Okay, tell me more."
	"Look, kid," she says. "When I ask you to pick sides, when I offer you a mission that's gonna burn some bridges for you, I won't be sneaky about it. I'll tell you exactly what you're signing up for. What I'm offering you now is just a chance to get to know us, and let us get to know you, with no expectations. Heck, you can even run missions for the Reps at the same time."
	"That sounds fair. I'll hear you out."
	"Fair enough, but I don't like working with people who start conversations by pointing guns at my head. Even unloaded guns. Find someone else to do this job for you."
	"Look, kid," she says. "I know the situation looks bad, but I'm telling the truth when I say that the Free Worlds aren't the ones who dropped those nukes, and we don't know who did, either. So I'll proudly be called treasonous for separating from the Republic, but I will not tolerate being called a terrorist."
	"And what reason do I have to believe you?"
	"I'm not convinced. You'll need to find some other sucker to do your dirty work for you."
	She pauses for a moment. "You don't have a reason," she says with a sigh. "Sometimes you just need to take things on faith."
	"Alright, I'm willing to hear you out."
	"Well I don't have a lot of faith in people who start conversations by pointing guns at my head. Even unloaded guns. Find someone else to do this job for you."
	"Okay, here's the deal. We need some cargo carried from <planet> to Skymoot. It's just medical supplies - no bombs, no contraband. But we'll load it onto your ship in the dead of night, trying our best to avoid any notice. But the Reps have the sharpest eyes in the galaxy, so you'll get noticed anyway. And since anything done in the dead of night is likely to arouse their suspicions, you'll get boarded and searched. Meanwhile, the real cargo will have been loaded onto one of our ships in broad daylight, and will pass through Republic space entirely unnoticed."
	"I like the way you think. Count me in."
	"Sorry, it sounds a bit too shady for my liking. Please don't offer me any work in the future."
	"Shucks," she says, "I liked you. I was looking forward to having you on my team." She looks genuinely crestfallen. "But fair is fair. You're free to go, and I'll tell my colleagues that you're not interested in working for us."
	"Great," she says, grinning even more broadly. "My name's Katya Reynolds, by the way. Glad we'll be working together." She starts to walk away, then seems to remember something. "One last thing - some friends of mine on <planet>, tourists, need a lift off that rock, and I owe them a favor. Would you mind saving two bunks for them?"
	"Sure, no problem."
	"Excellent. I'm looking forward to doing business with you, Captain."
	You dodge sideways and spin quickly. As you do so you hear a loud click, but the gun does not fire. With one hand you knock aside the gun. With the other you land a karate chop which, if you had studied karate, would've shattered her collarbone and left her reeling in pain. But since you have not studied karate, instead your blow bounces harmlessly off her surprisingly muscular shoulder.
	Your assailant turns out to be wearing a Free Worlds uniform and a disappointed expression. "Well aren't you a dumb reckless bastard!" she says, "I'd hoped for something better from you. First of all, if this gun were loaded, your brains would be splattered all over the sidewalk. And second, you fight like a girl. I have no use for hotheads like you." She stalks off, leaving you very confused. It would appear that you've just failed some sort of test.
	(Let her go.)
	"Oh yeah? Well you ARE a girl!"
	She turns back around, with a fearsome gleam in her eyes, and walks up to you until your faces are only inches apart. "Yeah, but I don't fight like one," she says. "I... fight like a she-badger."
	"A she... badger?"
	"Fearsome creatures." She walks away, leaving you even more confused.
Bring some cargo (harmless but intended to look suspicious) and two tourists to <destination>.
You have reached <origin>, but you need <capacity> in order to take on Katya's mission for the Free Worlds. Return here when you have the required space free.
Soon after you land, a middle-aged tourist couple approach you and ask if you'd be willing to take them to Skymoot, "to see the dragons. Katerina recommended you." You tell them you would be glad to.
	The man, who is wearing floral print shorts and carrying an absurdly large camera, introduces himself as Marty. "And this is my wife, Sarah," he adds. "Would you mind taking a picture of us?" They pose in front of your ship. "Better take two pictures in case she blinks," says Marty. As you help them bring their oversized suitcases on board, you can't help wondering why Katya would be friends with such a quintessential pair of rich, uncultured buffoons.
	Much later that night, as planned, three shadowy figures load a set of unmarked crates into your cargo bay. Katya assured you that the contents are harmless, just intended to distract the Republic security officers, but you can't help feeling like you're getting involved in something shady.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Marty, Sarah, and the medical supplies hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
When you land on <planet>, before your engines have even had a chance to cool, Katya comes aboard your ship. When she sees your passengers, she breaks into a wide grin. "Lynn!" she says, running up and hugging the woman who introduced herself as "Sarah." Then she turns to "Marty" and says, "And Henry! So good to see you both. Captain <last>, allow me to introduce you to Professor Lynn Anderson, one of the galaxy's premier planetary scientists, and her husband Henry, a former Navy intelligence officer."
	"Pleased to meet you both. Why the deception?"
	"Wait a minute... were they the secret cargo?"
	Katya explains, "The Andersons are defecting to the Free Worlds. Their dream is to make terraforming a public service, supported by government funds, rather than a luxury available only to the richest of planets. We worked for years to get Parliament to accept that idea, but with no luck. And because of Henry's background and knowledge about the intelligence community, the Republic would have stopped them if they knew they were defecting."
	She adds, "The real secret cargo, which arrived several days ago via a faster ship, was their personal possessions and Lynn's lab equipment and instruments, which were loaded onto a ship supposedly bound for Hestia."
	"We had just rented a cottage there," says Henry, "saying we were downsizing. We'll lose the security deposit, of course, but it gave us an excuse to pack up and move."
	Katya says, "You might not guess it from the outfit he's wearing, but Henry is an absolute mastermind at subtlety and misdirection. He planned the whole thing." She hands you a credit chip for <payment>. "Thanks so much for your help. If you're willing to continue helping the Free Worlds, meet me in the spaceport bar in half an hour."
When you land on <origin> and open your ship's main hatch, you find yourself facing a Navy officer with several armed guards in tow. He says, "Sorry captain, but you've been selected for a random cargo screening."
	(Let them in.)
	(Attack them.)
	(Shut the hatch and escape into space.)
	You draw your gun while screaming "Death to all tyrants!" The officer shouts in alarm and dives out of the way. His companions, who turn out to be wearing body armor, open fire. You die quickly. Katya will be very disappointed.
	You slam the hatch shut in their faces, quickly fire up your engines, and flee for the sky. Before you have even broken out of the atmosphere, your communicator picks up a broadcast message marking you as a wanted criminal. Also, your radar informs you that several Navy vessels are on your tail.
	You let the officer and his companions into your cargo bay. They immediately zero in on the crates that were loaded up during the night. One of the guards runs a quick scan and says, "No explosives, no radiation."
	The Navy officer says, "Would you mind telling us what's in these crates?"
	"Just medical supplies. Surgical gear, mostly."
	"Just some secret illegal things."
	"I've never seen those crates before in my life. I don't know where they came from."
	"Any biological material or restricted medications?" he asks.
	"No, sir," you say.
	He laughs. "Sorry," he says, "you probably think we're just being paranoid, but rules are rules." Clearly he took what you said as a joke.
	He frowns. "We're going to have to frisk you," he says. One of the guards pats you down and takes your gun and your pocketknife. "Have a seat," says the officer. They force you to sit on the ground, and one of the guards points a very large gun at you.
	He says, "I'm afraid we're going to have to search these crates." The guards grab a couple of crowbars and begin prying the lids off them. The contents turn out to be relatively innocuous, although one box full of scalpels and other surgical implements gives them pause. As they open crate after crate without finding anything incriminating, you can tell the officer is getting more and more frustrated and uncomfortable. When the last crate turns out to contain nothing but bandages and gauze pads, his frustration turns to embarrassment. They re-pack the crates and nail the lids back on.
	"I'm sorry," says the officer, "we must have been responding to a bad tip. I'm very sorry for this invasion of your privacy, Captain."
	"Never mind, I know you're just doing your job."
	"Since when has the Republic gotten so heavy handed about searching civilian ships?"
	"You are very gracious, Captain. We will not detain you any longer." They leave.
	"I am sorry, Captain. Since the terrorist attacks everyone has been on edge. I hope you won't think badly of us." They leave.
Transport Mr. Eyes
Katya Reynolds asked you to travel to <destination>, where her friend Mr. Eyes is waiting for you.
As you are walking through the spaceport, someone calls out, "Captain <last>!" A Free Worlds officer is approaching you; you recognize her as the same woman who pulled a gun on you earlier as a way to "test" you. "I apologize for pulling that trick on you before," she says. "My name is Katya Reynolds. I've heard really good things about you from some other members of the Free Worlds Council, and I'm hoping you'd reconsider working with me."
	"Okay, as long as you don't point any more guns at me."
	"Sorry, I just really don't like you. Or the Free Worlds."
	"Great," she says. "Here's the deal. I have a friend named Mr. Eyes, who needs a lift from <destination>. For his safety, I'd rather not tell you anything about his work, but I assure you he's an upstanding citizen. A little unpopular with big corporations and certain corrupt local governments, though. Can you give him a lift?"
	"Sure, I would be glad to."
	"Sorry, this sounds a bit too shady to me."
You land on <planet>, but your escort with room for Mr. Eyes hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
When you enter the bar, Katya waves you over to her table. "I've got another friend who needs to be transported," she says. "This one is on a boondock planet near the Core right now."
	"Sure, I'd be glad to transport him."
	"Sorry, but I've decided working for the Free Worlds just isn't worth the risk."
	"Great!" she says. "His name is Mr. Eyes, and he'll meet you on <destination>. For his safety, I'd rather not tell you anything about his work, but I assure you he's an upstanding citizen. A little unpopular with big corporations and certain corrupt planetary governments, though."
Transport Mr. Eyes to <destination>, where the recent terrorist attack took place.
A former member of Parliament representing the impoverished Dirt Belt worlds, Katya is now a leader in the Free Worlds movement. She is well-known for standing up for the "common people" when they are being overlooked or mistreated by the government or by corporations.
Also known as "Mr. Eyes," Ijs worked for years as a self-appointed "vigilante nuclear power plant inspector," trying to catch and report environmental abuses that the government officials were turning a blind eye to. He has now agreed to join the Free Worlds movement.
As soon as you land and open your ship's hatch, a man wearing sunglasses and a ridiculous hat and carrying a large metal suitcase runs past you and into your ship, casting a quick furtive glance behind him to see if anyone is following.
	(Draw my weapon to defend myself against him.)
	(Quickly shut the hatch and find out if he is okay.)
	You shut the hatch to keep anyone else from boarding your ship uninvited, then confront him. "Who are you and what are you doing on my ship?" you ask.
	You shut the hatch to keep anyone else from boarding your ship, then turn around to find out who your visitor is. "My name is <first>," you say. "How can I help you?"
	"I'm Ijs Springborn," he says, pronouncing the name like "Eyes." He takes off the glasses and hat. "Councilor Reynolds told me to meet you here."
	"Wait, 'Councilor' Reynolds? You mean Katya is in Parliament?"
	He looks genuinely shocked. "You didn't know? That woman is a legend. Did two terms representing the Dirt Belt. Defender of small worlds and the common people. In some circles her work has made her almost as unpopular as me. But she got tired of working for reform and decided to create her own government instead."
	"And what do you do for work?" you ask.
	"Vigilante nuclear power plant inspector," he says, nonchalantly.
	"Um... what?"
	"How does that even work?"
	"Is that even legal?"
	"I go from world to world checking out plant emissions, to see if they're leaking isotopes into the air, the sea, or the groundwater. And if they are I sic the Department of Atomic Safety on them. The Syndicate hates my guts right now."
	"So, what has Katya asked you to do for the Free Worlds?" you ask.
	"Isn't it obvious?" he says. "We're going to hunt down certain naughty people who have been developing nuclear weapons, and the Free Worlds will turn them over to the Republic. Then the Republic will know that the Free Worlds weren't behind the attacks, and we'll stop this whole mess before it devolves into a civil war."
	"So, you're convinced that the Free Worlds are innocent?"
	"Okay, what's our plan to do that?"
	"Absolutely," he says. "It makes no sense. First of all, that attack hurt their cause more than it helped it. And second, I've known Katerina and her friends in the Free Worlds for a long time. There's no way they would agree to such a thing. So, whoever is responsible is out there somewhere, and the Free Worlds will bring them to justice."
	"Well, then, what's our plan?"
	"First," he says, "we need to go to Geminus, where the attack happened. I can explain more when we get there. In the meantime, I should also warn you that I seem to have terrible luck with pirates showing up wherever I go. It's almost like someone has put a price on my head." He grins.
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Mr. Eyes is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Bring Mr. Eyes to <destination>, where you will meet up with Katya (and hopefully get paid).
It turns out that the suitcase Mr. Eyes is carrying is full of portable sensors. He fires them up while explaining to you what he is doing. "Each world, and even each mine, has a slightly different mix of isotopes in their fissionable elements," he explains. "So what I'm doing right now is almost like taking a fingerprint. Once we've got it, we can try to find a match on another planet. I'd be willing to bet the material just came from a civilian reactor core, so tracking it back to the mine wouldn't necessarily incriminate anyone. But developing nukes is tricky, so they probably did tests. And if we can find the test site, that may lead us to the perpetrators."
	A few minutes later, his measurements are done. "Got it," he says. "Time to start hunting. Katya said to meet up with her on <planet>. It's not our best bet, but it's on the list of suspects."
As soon as you land, Mr. Eyes fires up his sensors and begins collecting data. A few minutes later, Katya shows up. "Eyes!" she says. "It's great to see you again."
	"You too, Councilor," he says.
	Katya hands you a credit chip for another <payment>. "Thanks again, Captain. Did Eyes explain the plan to you?" You nod. "Well," she says, "if you've got space for the two of us and want to be a part of seeing justice done, let's meet up in the spaceport once Eyes is done analyzing his data."
Drone Hunting
Disable a surveillance drone (ideally when no Cruisers are watching), board it, "salvage" its surveillance equipment, and return to <destination>. (Until you leave the system where you disabled the drone, other Republic ships may attack you.)
You find Eyes and Katya sitting in the shade of one of the few trees in the port, drinking some sort of frozen milkshakes while they stare out at the desert and talk in hushed voices. When you join them, Katya says, "I was just filling Eyes in on the Navy's recent fleet mobilization. Half the Dirt Belt is swarming with Cruisers and surveillance drones right now. It's hard to believe that we can find the attackers before they do, unless they're somewhere the Navy hasn't thought to look."
	"Agreed," says Eyes, "and to make matters worse, their sensors are probably much better than mine."
	Katya appears to be struck by a sudden idea. "The sensors on their drones," she says, "their unmanned drones..."
	Eyes glances at her, sees her expression, and says, "No, Councilor, don't even think of it. That's a horrible idea."
	"No," she says, "it's brilliant. Captain <last>, are you familiar with the Dereliction and Salvage Act of 2976?"
	"No, I've never heard of it."
	"Of course. I read parliamentary proceedings every night when I'm trying to fall asleep."
	"Well then," she says, "you'll probably agree that legally speaking, Navy surveillance drones count as abandoned goods the moment their owners have left the system."
	"Well," she says, "it started when the Syndicate began experimenting with fully automated mining facilities on uninhabitable planets. Pirates started raiding the mines to steal equipment, and the Syndicate claimed that these installations were 'colonies' and it was the Navy's job to defend them. The Act was Parliament's response, stating that taking goods from a human being is piracy, but if the owner or some living representative of theirs is not present in the system, taking those goods is a legal salvage operation. The point was to keep the Navy from being obligated to defend every equipment cache or abandoned station in the galaxy. But by the same law, those Navy surveillance drones become abandoned goods the moment their motherships leave the system."
	"Yup. That makes perfect sense to me."
	"So first you have me smuggling people across the galaxy, and now you want me to attack Navy ships? Next you'll ask me to start taking prisoners."
	"That sounds like a terrible idea."
	Eyes laughs, spitting out his milkshake in the process. "We won't be asking you to do anything of that sort," Katya responds somewhat aggressively. "Look, if we want to track down who dropped those bombs then we need to get our hands on better scanning equipment, equipment that the Navy has on their unmanned surveillance drones, and you're the one with a ship unconnected to the Free Worlds. All you need to do is find a lone surveillance drone to plunder. Legally the Navy can't do anything about it, and no one will be hurt in the process. If we succeed in finding who's responsible for the bombings, we could prevent war between the Republic and Free Worlds, saving thousands or even potentially millions of lives. So are you with us or not?"
	"Are you saying we're going to need to find a different captain to work with?" says Katya. "That would be a big disappointment."
	"Fine, I'll do it. But I still think it's an unwise idea."
	"I'm sorry, but this is a bit farther than I'm willing to go. Count me out."
	"Great!" says Katya. "All we have to do is disable a drone, board it, yank out the surveillance equipment, and bring it back here to test it out."
	Ijs says, "Captain, we should warn you: when you attack a drone, any Republic folks in that system will get mad at you. But once you jump out of the system, they'll calm down again."
You land on <planet>, but you don't have a Surveillance Pod. You must disable a Navy surveillance drone and plunder the outfit from it before returning.
You hand over the "salvaged" equipment to Mr. Eyes and Katya. Eyes begins fiddling with it, and soon discovers how to work the atmospheric scanner. "This is really nice stuff!" he says, enthusiastically.
	Katya says, "We found a halfway decent restaurant in the spaceport village. If you want to keep working with us, meet us there this evening."
Katya and Mr. Eyes
Stop on <destination> and check the planet for signs of nuclear testing.
You need bunks for both Katya and Eyes in order to continue this mission.
Katya grew up on Hope, a Dirt Belt world that is no longer inhabited because of a supervolcano eruption that triggered a new ice age. Despite her distrust of the Republic she has high regard for the Navy because they were the ones, acting without clearance from Parliament, who helped the settlers on Hope to evacuate safely.
You join Katya and Mr. Eyes in the restaurant, and order your meals. They are both in high spirits. While you are waiting for the food to arrive, Mr. Eyes raises his glass of wine and says, "A toast, to Captain <last> and our marvelous new toy. May it bring us good information and swift justice."
	"We're thinking that while we're in the area, we should stop on <planet> next," says Katya, "and then work our way toward the Rim."
	Your meals arrive. The food is excellent, and you spend a relaxed evening sharing stories of your childhoods. Katya turns out to be a Dirt Belt native like yourself, from a planet named Hope. "No longer settled," she explains. "Supervolcano. It was a cold planet to start out with, and the eruption sent it into an ice age that could last for millennia. My home town is under thirty meters of glacier by now."
	"Was anyone killed?"
	"How did you escape?"
	"The eruption was on the other continent," she explains, "so no one was killed in the blast. It was a slow-moving disaster. We had six months or so to move two million settlers off-world before the temperatures would drop too low to be livable. More than half of the Navy was mobilized to ferry our people to other planets."
	"Here's the best part," says Eyes. "The Navy operates with a certain amount of autonomy. Turns out when they found out about the disaster, they mobilized without even waiting to clear it with Parliament. Which was technically within their mandate, this being a natural disaster. But the Navy is funded by taxes, and the Paradise Planets pay ten times as much in taxes as the Dirt Belt."
	"The Paradise Planets viewed the Navy as their own private security force," says Katya, "so they got really mad when half the Navy suddenly vanished to assist some dirty refugees. Because those admirals gave the order to assist us, millions of lives were saved. And then Parliament fired them."
	"You're making the Navy sound like heroes. I thought they were your enemies."
	"You've almost convinced me to join the Navy."
	"Our fight isn't with the Navy," says Katya. "Most of them are good people. I'm sure they don't want war any more than we do. They're like police officers who are suddenly being asked to fight against the very people they swore to protect and serve."
	"I was a child on Vinci while this was happening," says Eyes. "A Paradise World. I would listen to the news and could never understand why all the adults around me were so very, very angry that the Navy had gone off to rescue two million people from freezing to death. But they told me that we lived in one little island of safety in a dangerous galaxy, and that without the Navy protecting us the pirates or even maybe aliens would sweep in and destroy our homes and take our money. That it was us against the whole galaxy."
	"I'd hate to be rich," says Katya. "So much to fear."
	You finish your meal (Katya pays the tab), and agree to take off for <planet> first thing in the morning.
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Katya and Mr. Eyes are on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Information Gathering
Bring Katya and Mr. Eyes to <destination>, where some monks may be able to help you negotiate with the pirates for information.
You land on <origin>, and Mr. Eyes fires up the new Navy surveillance equipment to make atmospheric measurements. "Nothing here," he says after a few minutes. "Guess we should move on."
	"Are we just going to search every planet in this sector? Won't that take months?"
	"Are there any other ships helping us search, or is it just us?"
	"You've got a point," says Eyes. "And we don't even know for sure that the terrorists originated from around here. Without any additional information, we're looking for a needle in a galaxy-sized haystack."
	"No," says Eyes, "we've tried to keep this search a secret so the terrorists won't know we're looking for them. Any group with the resources to develop nuclear weapons likely has the resources to also cover their tracks, and if they know we're coming for them, they could make our job even harder than it already is."
	Katya says, "What we need is some leads to follow. I bet we could buy information on Greenrock. Whenever anyone is doing something illegal in this sector, there's a good chance the pirates are helping them."
	Mr. Eyes says, "Unless you've got boatloads of money to give the pirates, we need someone who's friendly with them, who can convince them to talk for free. We should go to the Brothers on Harmony."
	"That's not a bad idea," says Katya, "as long as they don't make me sit through one of their church services. I'm usually all for service, but theirs always makes me fall asleep."
	"What do you say, Captain?" asks Eyes. "Want to visit a monastery?"
	"Sure, sounds like fun."
	"You guys have interesting friends. How do you know these monks?"
	"Sounds boring. Can't we go shoot down more surveillance drones instead?"
	"When I grew up and left the Paradise sector, as a young idealist," says Eyes, "I decided I wanted to take a vow of poverty, so I came to live with the Brothers. But it turns out they also wanted me to take a vow of obedience. And chastity. Not so much my cup of tea." He winks at Katya.
	"Are the monks really as boring as Katya says?" you ask.
	"Sorry kid," says Eyes. "Take it from me, working for justice is not always exciting."
	"Fine, I'm in."
	"Sorry, but I think I'm done with helping the Free Worlds. I'd rather strike out on my own."
Travel to <planet> with Brother Greg and see if he can get any information from the pirates there. (Hail the planet to have him negotiate landing clearance.)
Brother Greg talks briefly with the spaceport traffic controller. When they realize who he is, they agree to let you land "without paying the usual fee."
Pirate ships are often crewed by children, the equivalent of street gangs or child soldiers. Many lawless worlds are so poor that joining a pirate gang is one of the only attractive options for earning a living.
Katya and Eyes lead you to the monastery. As you are approaching, you meet a monk who is wearing a long black robe and kneeling in a small vegetable garden, pulling weeds. When he looks up and sees you, he leaps to his feet and runs over. "Katya! And Ijs! Welcome back!" Then he turns to you. "I'm David," he says.
	"I'm <first>. Pleased to meet you."
	Katya asks, "Is Brother Greg here?"
	"He is," says David. "Come inside." The monastery building is a stone and brick structure that looks like pictures you have seen of ancient Earth. He leads you down a long hallway and into a sitting room with furniture that looks equally antique, then leaves.
	As you are waiting, Eyes explains, "Brother Greg is in charge of the monastery's outreach and ministry to pirate crew members."
	"That sounds even odder than being a vigilante nuclear inspector."
	"Why would anyone want to reach out to pirates?"
	Eyes laughs. "Yes, the monks were a big influence in helping me to think creatively about my own vocation."
	"Consider this," says Katya. "In the galactic south, the average age of a pirate crew member is seventeen years old. And many are much younger than that. They're more like street kids than like hardened criminals."
	Just then, Brother Greg walks in. Mr. Eyes introduces you to him and explains your situation. Greg frowns, thoughtfully. "What do we have to offer in exchange for that information?" he asks.
	Katya says, "Ever since the bombings, Southern space has been swarming not only with an increased militia presence, but with the whole Republic Navy. That must make it awfully hard to be a pirate. Seems like the pirates would be glad if the Navy got what they were looking for and went back up north."
	Brother Greg nods. "It's worth a try. Why don't you join us for dinner, and we'll depart for Greenrock in the morning. When we get there, just hail the planet and let me do the talking, and I can probably get permission to land for free."
	You join the brothers for a simple but delicious dinner, soup and salad made entirely from their own gardens. After dinner, Greg asks you, "Do you want to join us for evening prayer?"
	"Sure, I'd be glad to."
	"Sorry, I've got some other stuff to get done tonight."
	"No problem," he says. "See you in the morning."
	"Evening prayer" turns out to be a lengthy church service that apparently begins with the monks listing every bad thing they can possibly imagine and praying that it would not happen: "From lightning and tempest; from earthquake, fire, and flood; from plague, pestilence, and famine, good Lord, deliver us. From all oppression, conspiracy, and rebellion; from violence, battle, murder, and war; and from dying suddenly and unprepared, good Lord, deliver us..." It's very monotonous.
	At some point, they switch to praying for different people: for the Parliament of the Republic, and everyone in authority; for the governor of <origin>, their world; for the Quarg and all sentient species; for prisoners, for the homeless and poor, for orphans, for pregnant women and young children, for travelers, for starship crews and captains, for miners and oil crews, for mill and factory workers; for the abused; for the mentally ill; for pirates and street gangs; for all creatures and planets vulnerable to exploitation or ecological destruction. (Eyes, who is sitting next to you, responds to that last petition with a fervent "Amen!") The litany is so detailed and specific that you find it both exhausting and fascinating.
	When the service ends, the monks depart for their rooms in silence, and Eyes, with a brief nod to you, does the same.
	At breakfast in the monastery, Mr. Eyes tells you, "I'm going to be staying here until you get back. Greenrock is no place for a man with a price on his head. But Katya will be going with you." You bring Katya and Greg back to your ship and get ready to take off.
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Katya and Brother Greg are on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Return to <planet> with Katya and Brother Greg.
Brother Greg disappears for several hours to talk with his various contacts, then returns and reports to you and Katya. "No one has heard anything specific," he says, "and they say keeping a nuclear program secret would take an incredible amount of resources, or a very remote location with very good security."
	"Any hints on where we should look?" asks Katya.
	"A few. I talked to one friend who had done research into nuclear development 'for purely academic reasons,' and he said that only a fool would perform atmospheric tests; Intelligence would notice that immediately, no matter what world you were on. He said the ideal development location would be a sparsely populated planet with some abandoned deep underground mines."
	"Anything else?" you ask.
	"Just one more thing," says Greg. "Several people mentioned that they think the Navy itself may have a nuclear arsenal, and that a renegade may have stolen the weapons from them. Much easier than developing them yourself."
	"Well, let's head back to <planet> and see what Eyes thinks," says Katya, "but I can't imagine the Navy would have such an arsenal. Searching on mining planets sounds like our best bet for now."
When you land on <planet>, as Brother Greg is gathering his luggage, Katya hands you another credit chip for <payment>. "Thanks for risking your life with the pirates," she says. "You've got real guts."
	You return to the monastery and share your new information with Mr. Eyes. His reaction is the same as Katya's. "No way the Navy has nukes," he says. "Some other secret branch of the government, maybe, but not the Navy. That would offend their sense of honor."
	"Still," says Katya, "if there was such a program and the weapons were stolen from it, that would explain why Intelligence has not named a suspect yet. They would have to reveal the program's existence."
	Eyes shakes his head. "This isn't a productive line of investigation," he says. "If it was some local terrorists, we've got some hope of tracking them down. If it's some shadowy government organization, there's no way we can find them. So, the local terrorist angle is the only one worth pursuing."
	"Very well," says Katya. "Captain <last>, meet us in the spaceport if you're willing to continue working with us."
The Hunt Continues
Take Katya and Eyes to <destination>.
You find Katya and Mr. Eyes sitting at a table in the corner of a small cafe, talking in hushed voices and examining a galactic map that is spread out in front of them. Several of the nearby systems are circled. Katya says, "Hello again, Captain. We've picked three planets that we think are our best options: <planet>, Hopper, and New Iceland. It should only take a few weeks to visit all of them. What do you say?"
	"Sure, I definitely want to help solve this case!"
	"Why these worlds specifically? Why not check worlds in Free space if the Republic thinks you did it?"
	"Sorry, I'm through with helping the Free Worlds. I don't think we have a chance of beating the Navy to the punch."
	"I suppose that showing a lack of evidence for nuclear testing done on Free planets would be circumstantial evidence for us," Eyes says, "but we're specifically hunting for the culprit, so these are our best bets as far as nearby mining worlds go. And searching these three worlds would be quicker than searching all of Free space."
	"Another thing we have to keep in mind is that we may not be able to operate outside of Free space forever," Katya responds. "I pray that we find answers before it comes to it, but war between the Free Worlds and Republic would cut us off from freely searching most of the galaxy."
	"Okay, I'll help you search these worlds."
	"Sorry, but I don't think this is the best course of action. You'll have to find someone else to help you with this."
	"Great!" says Katya. "We'll stop on <destination> first, then swing by Hopper and on to New Iceland. If we still haven't found anything by that point, we'll start working our way up the Rim."
Mr. Eyes fires up his instruments and looks at the results for a few minutes. "Nothing," he says. "Even underground testing would've thrown up a debris plume large enough to measure traces of it. But I'm picking up nothing."
	"No problem," says Katya. "Let's continue to <planet>."
Again, Eyes runs his tests, and again, nothing shows up. "One more planet to go," he says. "Time to try <planet>." You can tell that they are both starting to feel a bit discouraged, and you are overwhelmed by the thought of how many planets in this sector you may need to search unless you get a lucky break soon.
Take Katya and Eyes to <destination> to check for signs of underwater testing.
<origin> turns out no differently than the previous two. "We need a change in strategy," says Katya. "We've been talking about something while we were in transit."
	Eyes says, "It occurred to me that underwater testing might be even easier than underground: no need to dig or find a mine shaft. And, the Navy's sensors are for atmosphere, not oceans. But I've still got my old test kits with me for seawater."
	Katya says, "So then we wondered, what sort of world would you go to if you wanted rumblings in the ocean to go unnoticed? Either an unpopulated one, or one with lots of meteorite activity. And that leads us to... <planet>." She points out the system on your map. "Mild tidal surges on almost a weekly basis, due to impacts from all the asteroids in system. Perfect place to hide an undersea explosion."
	"Sounds like a good possibility. Let's give it a try!"
	"But <planet> is part of the Free Worlds. What happens if we do find evidence there?"
	"Sorry, I've got some other missions I need to run instead of continuing this wild goose chase."
	"The plan hasn't changed," Eyes responds. "We find where the testing occurred, and that will lead us to the culprits. Even if it turns out that someone connected to the Free Worlds is responsible, they'll be turned over to the Republic."
	"I pray that no one within the Free Worlds is a part of this, though," Katya says quietly. "I'm almost hoping we find nothing."
	"Fair enough. Let's give it a try."
	"The Free Worlds is looking guiltier the more we look. I'm out of here."
	"I appreciate your help, Captain <last>," says Katya. "Let's get going."
Take Katya and Eyes to the mining moon <planet>.
After landing, you go for a walk along the beach with Katya and Eyes. They both go barefoot, walking in the surf. Eyes is collecting pebbles and shells from under the water, and at one point instead of grabbing a pebble he surreptitiously reaches down and fills a small vial with seawater.
	Back at your ship he runs his tests, with you and Katya watching eagerly. He looks at the results, frowns, and then repeats the whole procedure with a second test kit. Finally he sighs. "Nothing," he says.
	Katya shouts in frustration and bangs her fists against the bulkheads. "We're never going to find anything," she says. "Forget it, I'm going for a walk." She leaves your ship.
	Mr. Eyes packs up his instruments, and then you walk outside and find her sitting on the landing pad near your ship, watching the moon rise over the ocean. She seems much calmer.
	(Sit down next to her and try to comfort her.)
	"What should we do now?"
	You sit on one side of her, and Eyes sits on the other. "It's really admirable, what you're doing," you say. "You're trying to work for peace, and for justice. It's valuable work. Don't lose heart."
	"One more try," she says. "One last world, and then we give up. I want you to take me... there." She points at the moon, hanging just above the horizon.
	Eyes says, "Mining world. Dusty atmosphere. Frequent meteorite impacts. You could set off a nuke on the far side of that world and the miners would probably sleep right through it."
	"Okay, I'll take you to this one last world, and then we're done."
	"Sorry, 'one more world' is what you said two planets ago. I'm done with this."
	"I promise it will be the last one," says Katya.
Bring Eyes to <planet>
While Katya is undercover on <origin>, bring Mr. Eyes to <destination> to report to the Free Worlds.
You land some distance from the mining settlement, and Mr. Eyes goes into the airlock in a pressure suit, cycling it to bring in some of the moon's thin atmosphere for him to test. "Firing up my instruments now," he says through the commlink. There is a long pause, and then he starts spouting a long string of creative profanity. Katya runs over to the airlock window to see what is happening.
	Finally, Eyes calms down enough to say, "It's a match! Not only has there been a recent test here, but the signature matches the one we took on Geminus. This is it."
	He cycles the airlock and comes back inside. "Let's fly around and see if we can find the site," he says. After a few hours of flying low over the surface and scanning for radiation signatures, you find a spot that looks like all the other meteorite craters but is full of radiation. Katya and Eyes look at the images of the surface almost in disbelief.
	"Based on the isotopic decay rates, this explosion happened in mid-June," says Eyes. "Just before the attacks happened."
	"It makes no sense," says Katya. "It's a blatant atmospheric test. No way the Navy hasn't found this. The Navy could act on this at any moment."
	"What do we do now that we've found the test site?"
	"So the Free Worlds is behind this! This is one of your planets!"
	"Yes, this a Free planet, but this evidence is far too blatant," Eyes responds. "Just because we found a match here doesn't mean this is where all the testing happened. I'm only detecting enough isotopes to account for one explosion, and you wouldn't just test once. If anything, this shows that the Free Worlds is being framed by someone, and they used one nuke here before bombing Geminus and Martini to make it look like it was the Free Worlds who did it."
	"I swear before God when I say that the Free Worlds has nothing to do with this, Captain," Katya says. "But we'll find whoever is responsible and bring them to justice."
	Katya thinks for a moment. "Captain, is the outpost reporting any job openings?"
	You check your computer. "One job opening, for a janitor in the mess hall."
	She grimaces. "Okay, it's better than nothing. I'll take the job to go undercover and see what I can find out. You take Eyes to <planet>, where he can get in touch with the Free Worlds Council. I'll find a way to send you a message once I've found the perpetrators."
	"Katerina," says Eyes, "this is way too dangerous. As I said, if we were able to detect this then so can the Navy, and they probably already have. They could decide to occupy Clink at any moment, and you'd be trapped here with no way out."
	"There's no other way," she says. "We have no time to lose. I'm willing to risk it."
	With deep reservations, you drop her off at the outpost. Katya ruffles her hair and rubs some moon dust onto her face to blend in while asking about the job, which she is quickly offered. "Not many folks care to work up here," says the foreman, "so your help would be much appreciated." You and Eyes return to your ship and get ready to travel to <planet> with the evidence.
Eyes has been really quiet for the whole journey; you're sure that he's worried about Katya. When you land, he hands you <payment> and says, "Thank you for all your help, Captain. I pray that this leads to justice being done."
	He starts to walk off, then comes back. "By the way, Katya wanted to keep this a secret, but I think you should know." He points to the credit chips he just handed you. "Katya's been funding this out of her own pocket. That's the last of her savings that she just paid you."
	"I had no idea."
	"Wow, she really is dedicated to this work, isn't she?"
	"She's a unique woman," says Eyes. "I hope we see her again soon. Goodbye for now, <first>."
Join the Free Worlds
If you want to join the Free Worlds, report to their headquarters on <destination>.
Soon after you land, a courier arrives at your ship and hands you a formal looking letter. It reads:
Dear Captain <last>,
	The Free Worlds Council would like to thank you for the invaluable assistance you have rendered to us recently. We are prepared to offer you a position as an officer in our militia, remaining in command of your own ship. Your starting salary will be 1,100 credits per diem. If you want to join us, please report to our headquarters on Bourne at your earliest convenience.
	Sincerely,
				Tomek Voigt
				Jean-Jacques Soleau
				Freya Winters
				Alondo Gruyere
				Katerina Reynolds
	You notice that Katya's name is printed, instead of signed like the others; she must still be undercover on Clink.
Rescue Katya
Rescue Katya from <planet>, before the Navy discovers her, and bring her safely to Longjump.
You have failed an essential Free Worlds mission. If you want to complete the story line, revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
You are on Bourne, the capital of the Free Worlds. Do you take them up on their job offer and volunteer to officially join them? With tensions between the Free Worlds and Republic so high, it's not unthinkable that they could go to war with one another, so it would be a good idea to have a warship and some spare funds before siding with the Free Worlds.
	(Not yet.)
	You find the Free Worlds offices and give your name to the person at the front desk. A few minutes later Tomek Voigt, who manages supplies and fleet movements for the Council, comes down the stairs to greet you. "I'm so glad you've agreed to join us, Captain <last>," he says.
	You find the Free Worlds offices and give your name to the person at the front desk. A few minutes later Tomek Voigt, who manages supplies and fleet movements for the Council, comes down the stairs to greet you. "Captain <last>," he says with a stern glare. "If it were up to me alone you would not be standing in front of me today, but it would appear that your continued help has earned you enough good will to surpass my mistrust of you.
	"But I'm a reasonable man," he continues, his expression changing to a smile. "If my friends trust you, then I will give you a second chance, even if it is against my better judgment. Now please, join us."
	That night you are introduced to the rest of the Council: Alondo Gruyere, the Council's chief diplomat, Freya Winters, an adept engineer and the Council's head of logistics, and Jean-Jacques "JJ" Soleau, an ex-Navy officer who now leads the training of the Free Worlds militias. Katya Reynolds, the final member of the Council, is not present.
	They take you out to dinner at a very fancy restaurant. Halfway through the third course of the meal, Tomek's communicator beeps. He reaches over to turn it off, then sees the message and turns pale. A hush falls over the table. "<system> has been captured by the Navy," he announces.
	After a long silence, JJ asks, "How many casualties?"
	"None," says Tomek. "The Navy claimed that <system> was the source of the terrorist attack, and after they showed the evidence to the militia commander on Deep he surrendered and yielded control of the system to them without a fight."
	"Was Katya still there? We need to rescue her!"
	"We can't allow them to do that. We should gather our fleets and attack."
	"Indeed," says Freya. "That should be our first priority."
	JJ says, "Calm down, Captain. Combat is our last option, not our first. And if their claim is correct, they were justified in taking the system."
	Freya says, "Uniting the militias could take weeks. A much more pressing issue is that Katya is still on Clink, unless anyone has heard otherwise from her."
	"Well," says Alondo, "it's a good thing we haven't yet publicly announced that Captain <last> is working for us. Captain, we have one final mission for you as an independent merchant captain. We need you to stop on Clink, locate Katya, and bring her safely to Longjump without being stopped by the Navy."
Alondo grew up on Bourne, the relatively prosperous planet on the edge of the Rim that is now the capital of the Free Worlds. He served as a Republic diplomat for years before becoming convinced that Parliament was just using him to "pacify" the less developed worlds in the South with empty promises. He joined the Southern Mutual Defense Pact in the early days, before it became the Free Worlds, and is now a member of the Council.
Tomek is a young and ambitious militia commander. His brilliant tactical leadership and charismatic personality gained him quite a following in the Dirt Belt region even before the Free Worlds came into existence. He was asked to join the Council in part because of his popularity with the local militias throughout the region.
Freya is an engineer, specializing in surveillance equipment but with a wide range of talents. She organized the "Thousand Eyes" program run by the Southern Mutual Defense Pact, which was an attempt to reduce the power of the pirate fleets in the region by tracking their fleet movements. Despite her relative lack of interest in politics, she was asked to join the Free Worlds Council because of her expertise in optimizing the distribution and management of resources.
Known to most people simply as "JJ," Jean-Jacques grew up in the Dirt Belt and served in the Navy for years before quitting in frustration over the fact that the Navy was no longer defending his home region of space. He now serves on the Free Worlds Council, where he is tasked with coordinating actions between the local militias and shaping them into a single fighting force that can act in concert with each other.
Return to <planet> and report to the Free Worlds Council that you were unable to locate Katya.
The mining outpost on Clink is swarming with Navy officers; you would guess that they in fact outnumber the miners. You are not sure how you are going to get in there and contact Katya without the Navy noticing.
	(Wait in my ship and see if she approaches.)
	(Check if she is waiting for me out by the test site.)
	(Make some excuse to enter the outpost.)
	You wait on the landing pad for several hours. Katya does not show up. Navy officers in pressure suits walk by your ship about every fifteen minutes, no doubt wondering what you are doing here.
	(Give up and report my failure to the Council.)
	You fly over the test site scanning for life signs or energy signatures, but there is nothing. And, there is little chance that Katya could be living out here for long, because she would need an oxygen source.
	(Wait on the landing pad and see if she approaches.)
	You put on a pressure suit, leave your ship, and approach the outpost. As soon as you step through the airlock you are stopped by a Navy officer. "What is your business here?" he asks.
	"My brother is a miner here," you say. "Our mother sent me to check on him."
	The officer says, "Don't worry, no one here has been hurt, and they will all be free to continue their work shortly. But for now, I'm going to have to ask you to leave this world." He calls over several guards who are wearing pressure suits; they escort you to your ship and command you to take off.
	You have no choice but to head back to <planet> without Katya. The Council is going to be very disappointed.
Defend Sabik
Help to repulse a Navy attack on Sabik, then land on Longjump to debrief.
When you land on <planet>, you discover that Tomek has already found transportation here; he meets you almost as soon as your ship lands. When you step out of the hatch alone, without Katya, he turns away in grief. "I'm sorry," you say, "I couldn't locate her. The whole place is under guard."
	"Very well," he says, "we'll have to pray that she's still hidden there somewhere. In the meantime, we need to make your allegiance official so that you can fight alongside us if it comes to that."
	He is carrying a paintbrush and a very large can of green paint. "Would you like to do the honors?" he asks.
	"I can't just keep flying merchant colors?"
	"No," he says, "it would be dishonest, and if you were to fight alongside us you would be classified as a partisan, a criminal rather than an enemy combatant. Believe it or not, you're better off as an official prisoner of war than as a partisan, if you ever do get captured. So, time to start painting."
	You take the paintbrush, climb on top of your ship, and begin painting it in the green and gold of the Free Worlds. Suddenly you hear a cheer from one of the other ships parked nearby; someone has seen what you are doing and is shouting, "For freedom! Another ship for freedom!" Soon several other people see you, and before long it seems like everyone in the port has picked up the cheer.
	Tomek stands by, silently, until you finish, and then approaches you with an outstretched arm holding onto a license. "Here. You're going to need this. I'm sure your assistance will be invaluable to our cause," he says as you accept the militia license. "Now if you'll excuse me, I must gather the militia for the coming battle."
	You find that the militia are collecting at the spaceport bar. Some congratulate you on joining the Free Worlds, but most are standing around quietly, waiting for something to happen. More gather as time goes by, to the point that the bar becomes overcrowded and militia are waiting in the streets outside the building.
	An hour later, while standing outside the bar, you look up and notice the flashing lights of ship weapon fire off in the distance above the planet. Some militia begin running to their ships, but most stand there like a deer in headlights. Just then, Tomek returns with a megaphone and begins shouting orders. "The Navy has entered the system! We can't let them take it, or they'll have us completely bottled up. This is where it begins. We need to fight! Get to your ships, quickly! We have more reinforcements on their way from deeper in the Rim!
	"And if you can, disable their ships instead of destroying them. These are Navy ships, after all, and most of them don't want war any more than we do. Now go! Your worlds need you!" You hurry to join all the other ships taking off to defend the system.
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still Navy ships circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
The Navy has been driven off, but at a great cost. You should probably visit the spaceport and see if Tomek is there, or someone else who can tell you what to do next.
Frontier delivery to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to the frontier world of <destination>. Frontier systems have a high rate of piracy, so prepare to defend yourself. Payment is <payment>.
Emigration to <planet>
These <bunks> passengers have finally saved up enough money to start a new life on <destination>, and are willing to pay you <payment> to transport them.
Disaster relief to <planet>
A disaster has occurred in a colony on the frontier world of <destination>. Deliver <cargo> to the planet by <date> for <payment>.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity> and collect your payment of <payment>. A group of <planet> citizens thank you and bid you farewell.
A novice pilot seeks instruction from an experienced captain, and requests an escort to <stopovers>. After that, return to <origin> and you will receive payment of <payment>.
After a smooth landing, you guide your student through an especially rough part of the spaceport, full of trash, homeless drifters, and poorly-lit alleyways. You explain the ins and outs of avoiding pickpockets, keeping out of bar fights, and how to spot a lousy deal at an outfitter's shop. After a few hours in one of the seedier parts of the galaxy, both of you are eager to return to <origin>.
You've returned to <planet>, but forgot to escort the <npc> to <stopovers> first! Better head there first.
Your student thanks you for the instruction and for providing a guided view of some of the galaxy's rougher areas. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Survive the pirate attack!
You're having a drink in a dimly lit spaceport bar when you notice a group of young men in crimson leather outfits gambling in a dark corner. The barman eyes them warily. One of them raises his drink and waves you over, beckoning to join their game.
	(Join their game.)
	(Ignore them and leave quickly.)
	You walk over to the table. A closer examination indicates a strong likelihood that they are pirates; not one of them looks older than 19, and they all sport fearsome tattoos and dangerous-looking sidearms. After a few rounds of cards it becomes abundantly obvious that they're cheating, and making little effort to hide this from you.
	Fortunately, you're able to outsmart them anyway and win the game, winding up with a sizable pile of credit chips. They don't look too happy about it, but do not bother you as you quickly leave. You thank your lucky stars: you're nearly 25,000 credits richer and still in one piece after a face-to-face encounter with pirates.
	You're starting to bleed money, with more than 10,000 credits in losses already.
	(Call them out on their cheating.)
	(Say nothing and continue playing.)
	You grit your teeth and lose hand after hand before the game finally ends. The pirates gloat over their "winnings" of almost 15,000 credits as you leave.
	You confront them on their blatant cheating when the meanest-looking one growls at you, "We're just playin' a game here, see? You'd better shut your big mouth if you know what's good for you! We can make this ugly real fast."
	The thugs stare at you menacingly and start to reach for their guns.
	(Shoot first!)
	(Grab the pot and run!)
	(Let them fleece me.)
	Unfortunately, they're faster than you. Your mutilated corpse hits the floor with a wet thump.
	Grateful that you never leave your ship unarmed, your hand flies toward the pistol at your thigh. You draw the weapon and fire at the pirate who just threatened you. The slug punches a hole in the center of his chest, and he collapses to the ground. His shocked comrades fumble in horror for their weapons, but you've taken them by surprise and quickly gun down another before deciding it's time to escape. You grab some of the credits on the table on the way out!
	You dash toward the hangar bay and blast off in a hurry. You quickly count your spoils and see that you're nearly 25,000 credits richer! Halfway out of the atmosphere, the remaining two pirates hurl obscenities over the comms from their own ships, which are in hot pursuit.
	You grab the pot and make a break for it! The ruffians howl and draw their guns. Dodging gunfire, you run towards the door and get halfway there before one of the slugs finds its mark. You fall to the floor in pain, watching a pool of your own blood expand around you. You try to struggle to your feet, but the toughest-looking pirate kicks you to the ground and finishes you off with another shot.
	You grab the pot and make a break for it! The ruffians howl and draw their guns. You run towards the door in a zigzag motion as bullets fly past you and tear chips out of the walls. You glance backwards just in time to see the barkeep reduce one of the ruffians to hamburger meat with an enormous shotgun. The remaining three chase after you.
	You dash toward the hangar bay and blast off in a hurry. You quickly count your spoils and see that you're nearly 25,000 credits richer! Halfway out of the atmosphere, you receive a message from the port authorities warning you that while they apprehended two of the pirates, the remaining two made it to their ships and are in hot pursuit.
When you repair the <origin>, the captain thanks you for your assistance and pays you <payment>.
Passengers to <planet>
Transport the remaining crew of a destroyed ship, <bunks> people that were working on the <origin>, to <destination>.
As you are approaching the <origin>, your radar sensors detect that the ship you are assisting is about to be slammed by a huge asteroid! While in a normal flight this wouldn't cause much trouble, a ship that has already suffered heavy damage and cannot dodge could be completely destroyed.
	(Shoot the asteroid.)
	(Maneuver my ship to shield the <origin>.)
	(Attempt to repair the <origin> so that it can dodge the asteroid.)
	(Interrupt the docking maneuvers and fly away.)
	You turn your ship around and activate your thrusters, trying to get as far as you can from the disabled ship. A few seconds later, the asteroid collides with the <origin>, tearing it to shreds and killing all of its crew members while leaving little more than a scratch on the asteroid's surface.
	You fire at the asteroid in an attempt to destroy it, but it looks like you've only made things worse. The asteroid has now broken up into dozens of smaller chunks still flying directly for the <origin>. Before you can even react to fix your mistake, most of the chunks have already hit the <origin>, which is now quickly depressurizing. There's nothing more you can do except move a safe distance away from the exploding ship...
	The shots you fire quickly break the asteroid into pieces, which seem to have changed course enough to completely miss the <origin>. After repairing it, you hail its captain, who thanks you with a payment of 30,000 credits.
	You dock with the <origin>, hoping to get out of this alive, but as soon as you reach the hatch, the asteroid hits and a series of explosions start coming from the disabled ship. You are able to reach your cockpit and undock, but the crew on the other ship couldn't reach yours in time...
	You dock with the <origin>, hoping to get out of this alive, but, as soon as you reach the hatch, the asteroid hits and a series of explosions start coming from the disabled ship. Most of the other ship's crew has been able to reach your ship by the time you undock from it, and they ask you to take them to <destination>.
	"Okay, it's not far."
	"How much can you pay me?"
	"I have a few hundred thousand credits," one of them says, presumably the captain. "I need to save enough to buy a new starship, but you will still receive a decent pay."
	The asteroid, after hitting your shield, breaks into a million fragments which fly away from the <origin>. After repairing it, you hail its captain, who thanks you with a payment of 30,000 credits.
The captain you talked with before thanks you again for saving him and his crew, and hands you <payment>.
When you repair the <origin>, the captain hails you. "This is the fourth time I've nearly died in the past week doing this job! Here, take this <cargo> to <destination> and finish this job for me. They said the payment is <payment>."
	(Take the cargo.)
	(Don't take the cargo.)
	The captain begins loudly swearing, so you cut the feed. Hopefully they make it to their destination in one piece.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity>, explain how the original merchant who took the job quit and handed off the cargo to you, and collect your payment of <payment>.
The captain of the <origin> thanks you for repairing them, but informs you that the pirates that disabled them are only a smaller part of a fleet attacking <destination>.
	The authorities of <planet> will probably pay you quite well if you assist them, but this could also be an easy way to get yourself killed.
	(Don't join the fight.)
Defend <planet>
Defeat a pirate raid on <destination>.
You make short-range scans of the <origin>'s outfits and cargo. Among the cargo, you find a crate full of credit chips worth <payment>. You drag the crate onto your ship before considering your next move.
You board the <origin>, but find no crew aboard. When you reach the cockpit of the ship, you look out into space to see an escape pod floating away. The <origin> is emitting a distress signal to nearby pirates, and a self-destruct sequence has been activated! You run back to your ship and get ready to fight.
Bring <bunks> ex-pirate crew members to <destination>.
When you board the <origin>, you find most of the crew already dead. One of the surviving crew members, who looks like a teenaged boy no older than 16, approaches you with his hands in the air. He explains that after the ship was disabled, a section of the crew decided to overthrow the tyrannical captain. He continues, saying how most pirate crew members are forced into servitude on pirate ships. The surviving <bunks> crew members beg you to bring them to <destination> so that they can escape from pirate slavery.
	The fight seems to have damaged the ship beyond repair. It may not last much longer in the vacuum of space if you leave the pirates here.
	(Help the pirate crew.)
	(Leave the pirate crew.)
The pirate crew members thank you for bringing them to <planet>. One of them hands you a small payment of <payment>. You wish them all the best of luck with their new lives and part ways.
flagship crew
You leave your ship empty and board the <origin> alone. Though you aren't expecting any danger, you still feel apprehensive all by yourself on an unknown disabled vessel, so you make sure to bring a sidearm. Your apprehension rises as you realize you can't hear any sounds of frantic activity or see crew members scurrying around trying to repair damage like you would expect. Making your way to the bridge, you relax upon seeing a single handsome and well-dressed young man welding a bulkhead. His movements are dexterous and competent, but your practiced eye tells you that the bulkhead is damaged beyond repair, so his work is futile. He looks up and introduces himself as captain Tarquin, offering the princely sum of 350,000 credits for your expert help repairing his vessel.
You leave your first mate in charge of your ship and board the <origin> alone. Though you aren't expecting any danger, you still feel apprehensive all by yourself on an unknown disabled vessel, so you make sure to bring a sidearm. Your apprehension rises as you realize you can't hear any sounds of frantic activity or see crew members scurrying around trying to repair damage like you would expect. Making your way to the bridge, you relax upon seeing a single handsome and well-dressed young man welding a bulkhead. His movements are dexterous and competent, but your practiced eye tells you that the bulkhead is damaged beyond repair, so his work is futile. He looks up and introduces himself as captain Tarquin, offering the princely sum of 350,000 credits for your expert help repairing his vessel.
As your boarding party clambers aboard the <origin>, you realize you can't hear any sounds of frantic activity or see crew members scurrying around trying to repair damage like you would expect. Making your way to the bridge, you are greeted by a single handsome and well-dressed young man welding a bulkhead. His movements are dexterous and competent, but your practiced eye tells you that the bulkhead is damaged beyond repair, so his work is futile. He looks up and introduces himself as captain Tarquin, offering the princely sum of 350,000 credits for your expert help repairing his vessel.
	(Accept this generous payment and help make repairs.)
	"Not to look a gift horse in the mouth, but why are you offering so much money for my assistance?"
	"Can we get some help from your crew?"
	"Shouldn't a ship of this size have more crew?"
	Tarquin laughs self-consciously. "The truth is, I'm a bit desperate," he says. "My cargo hold is full of perishable goods that need to be delivered in three days to a very important client who will probably cut me off if I don't make the deadline. I thought I could save money by hiring inexperienced peasants to crew the ship, but as you can see, that hasn't worked out very well. They're cowering in their quarters even now. I'm offering you my profits from being a cheapskate. We'll call it paying for a lesson learned.
	Tarquin laughs heartily. "That lot? They're a bunch of simple peasants I picked up on New India, off hiding in their quarters right now. The bumpkins are unaccustomed to this kind of danger, and don't have a lot of technical skills. My fault for being too cheap to hire good help, I suppose. I'm definitely going to pick up some more experienced and reliable crewmen after we get out of this mess."
	"Can we get to work now?"
	(Get to work repairing the ship.)
	(Press the matter.)
	Something about captain Tarquin's explanation doesn't sit right with you, so you keep asking questions to distract him while subtly walking towards the ship's crew section. As you get closer, you start to hear the faint sounds of people banging on walls and yelling for help. Tarquin's face displays an almost uncannily neutral expression, but his body is taut, as though every muscle has tensed up all at once.
	"I think we took a wrong turn. Let's go repair your ship."
	"Now I see what kind of ship you're running, but don't worry, you're among friends. No charge for those repairs."
	"I'll help you, but the price just rose to a million credits, or I leave you here and tell the authorities that you're running a slave ship."
	"I demand that you release your slaves."
	(Attack him immediately.)
	"Yes, let's do that," replies Tarquin. However, his friendly attitude is gone, and he remains as tense as a steel cable. You work in stony silence and awkwardly collect your payment once the <origin> is up and running again.
	You feel relieved that the whole situation is over once you're safely back on board your own ship.
	Tarquin relaxes. "It's so nice to encounter a like-minded captain in this unfriendly galaxy," he says. "I wouldn't dream of accepting repairs for free. Take the money anyway, I insist."
	(Now go repair his ship.)
	(Take advantage of the opening and attack him.)
	You draw your weapon as fast as you can.
	Tarquin can't hope to stand alone against your entire boarding party and quickly surrenders. A look of cold fury glints in his eyes, even as the rest of his face remains calm.
	(Execute him here and now.)
	(Take him prisoner.)
	You instruct one of the members of your boarding party to tie him up and guard him. Tarquin curses you foully and bucks around as you search him, finding a concealed handgun and knife, and the credit chip he was going to pay you. You go to rescue the ship's crew.
	The crew quarters have been fashioned into a brig with stout cell doors. There is no obvious way to open them, so you and your compatriots begin blasting them open.
	Suddenly, a warning klaxon cuts through the noise with a harsh staccato. The ship's self-destruct sequence has been activated! You race to the room where Tarquin was being held, and find that he has somehow escaped. In his place is an unconscious member of your crew with a savage slash across his face, evidently inflicted by an additional concealed weapon you didn't manage to find. A nearby panel indicates that an escape pod has been jettisoned.
	The ship will explode in less than 30 seconds. You realize bitterly that there is no chance you can release the prisoners in time, and trying anyway will just get everyone killed. You and your boarding party storm angrily back to your ship and release the docking clamps just in time for the <origin> to disintegrate into a cloud of space debris, cruelly ending the already unhappy lives of captain Tarquin's victims.
	You vow that it will be the last time you underestimate captain Tarquin, should your paths cross again.
	You search Tarquin and find a concealed handgun and several knives, the credit chip he was going to pay you, and a tiny unlocking device. Then you instruct one of the members of your boarding party to lock him in your ship's brig. Tarquin curses you foully as he is marched to captivity at gunpoint. You resolve to figure out what to do with him later, and go to rescue the ship's crew.
	You gun captain Tarquin down in cold blood, to the shock of at least one member of your boarding party. Good riddance to bad rubbish, you think, as you search the body of ex-captain Tarquin. You find a concealed handgun and several knives, the credit chip he was going to pay you, and a tiny unlocking device. You go to rescue his crew with it.
	Tarquin eyes your boarding party and stares at you icily for at least five uncomfortable seconds before finally replying. "Fine," he said coldly, his eyes blazing with barely contained rage, even as the rest of his face remains calm. He remains as tense as a steel cable as you and your team repair the ship in stony silence, awkwardly collecting your payment once the <origin> is up and running again.
	"It'll be a cold day in hell before I get blackmailed by someone dumb enough to board a disabled ship all alone," sneers Tarquin.
	Captain Tarquin throws back his head and laughs at the exact moment that he draws a concealed pistol and shoots you with it five times - all in the blink of an eye. Your last thoughts concern the effectiveness of his distraction and the foolishness of your bravado.
	Quick as a flash, he whips out a concealed pistol and drills a hole in your spine before you can react. The dangerous game you were playing ends abruptly.
	Quick as a flash, he whips out a concealed pistol, but you're faster. It's the last mistake he ever makes. You search the body of ex-captain Tarquin, finding several concealed knives in addition to his handgun, the credit chip he was going to pay you, and a tiny unlocking device. You go to rescue the crew with it.
	The ship's crew quarters have been fashioned into a brig with stout cell doors. Fortunately the unlocking device opens them all, and close to a dozen malnourished wretches stumble out, telling you the whole story: captain Tarquin has been keeping them as slaves for the past several months, locking them in their quarters when the ship makes berth, and with no food as a punishment when they complain. They are quite happy to see his lifeless body sprawled out on the deck plating.
	You turn the <origin> over to them and return to your ship.
	The ship's crew quarters have been fashioned into a brig with stout cell doors. Fortunately the unlocking device opens them all, and close to a dozen malnourished wretches stumble out, telling you the whole story: captain Tarquin has been keeping them as slaves for the past several months, locking them in their quarters when the ship makes berth, and with no food as a punishment when they complain. They are quite happy to hear that he has been taken into captivity.
	You turn the <origin> over to them and return to your ship to figure out what to do with Tarquin.
	A quick check of the public data in the galactic criminal justice database doesn't reveal that he's wanted for any crimes. You decide to turn him to law enforcement authorities on the nearest planet.
Deliver captain Tarquin to law enforcement on the nearest planet.
You haul captain Tarquin out of your brig and bring him to the portside police station, presenting evidence from your suit cameras and notarized witness statements compiled from your crew members attesting to his crimes of being involved in slavery. The officer on duty thanks you for the service you've rendered, and takes Tarquin into custody. He shoots one final black look at you that sends a shiver up your spine.
Pirates occupying <system>
A small band of pirates have been occupying <system>, and the local government has asked for help. Defeat the pirates in the system and land on <planet> when done. Payment is <payment>.
A gang of pirates have been occupying <system>, and the local government has asked for help. Defeat the pirates in the system and land on <planet> when done. Payment is <payment>.
A large gang of pirates have been occupying <system>, and the local government has asked for help. Defeat the pirates in the system and land on <planet> when done. Payment is <payment>.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside as pilots run for their ships: "<destination> is being occupied by a pirate fleet! They are requesting help from any combat-worthy ship in the region to join the defenses!" The authorities of <planet> will probably pay you quite well if you assist them, but this could also be an easy way to get yourself killed.
A few militia pilots have gathered to help repel the pirate attack. You join them, and prepare your ship for the upcoming battle...
Deliver <tons> of cargo to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You follow the directions specified in the job to an abandoned-looking warehouse and find your cargo in unlabeled crates. As you load it onto your ship, you get the feeling that you are being watched.
You drop off the unlabeled cargo in a warehouse not too dissimilar to the one you picked it up in. A man dressed in a cloak hands you <payment> after the last crate is removed from your ship.
You have some difficulty finding your passengers, but after almost an hour of searching you finally find them. As they follow you back to your ship, you hear them whispering to each other, but you can't make out what they're saying.
Your passengers ask that you land away from the busy spaceport center. They hand you <payment> and rush out of your ship and away from the spaceport with considerable speed.
There Might Be Riots
Medium Confidence
Catastrophe Aftermath
Swift of the Sponge
Shrapnel Vacuum
Daniel Suburbia
Volume Maneuver
Galactic Grouch
Greed
Hacker Headache
Diffusion Four
Nuclear Martini
Illusion of Normalcy
Lost and Disturbed
Shockkkkkkk
Broken Ones
Born to Ride
The Bandits
The Untouchables
The Gunners
Five To One
Megalodon
Meathooks
Weird Over Easy
Axe Handle Conformity
Laminated Fish
Bad Food and Blasphemy
Clock Me Something Awful
Beacon Of Correct Procedure
Flammable People
Zanzibar Must Die
Immunity To Death
Fascist Blob
Apologetic Apocalypse
Mediocre Generica
Cryptic in a Nifty Way
Excessive Friction
Scratching Without Permission
Tingle of Terror
Rusty Muffins
Comrades on Toast
Hodgepodge of Progress
Hellish Wrongness
Radioactive Bishop
Unlawful Possession
Needle Injector
Trail of Bodies
High Voltage
War of Roses
North of Heaven
On Target
Bad Medicine
The Vampires
The Screaming Eagles
Violent Surprise
Nine Meter Shanks
Phantom Blaster
Combat Drone Tendency
Ringworld Crusaders
Turais is Unbreakable
Windblain Aureo
Darkstone Ocean
Planck Massacre
Occam's Chainsaw
The Crimson Kippers
Sad Archie
Gluttony
Save the Nanobots
Blinded by Science
Let's Play War
World of Silence
Indiscriminate
My Mojo
Blue Illusion
Foreign Beauty
God is Dead
Abstraction is the Answer
Outrageous Activism
Cheap Entertainment
The Devil's Moon
Roaring Thunder
Revenge Makes You Cry
Steam Ears
Organic Revolt
Nature of the Beast
Instant Devastation
Weakness and All That
Trouble Will Return
No Regrets
Golden Smart Mouth
The Girls of Pain
Burning Pain
Another Wasted Day
Wisdom in Another World
The Only Destiny
Into the Sun
Fury of My Ruggedness
Expensive Massacre
Can't Go On
Fear Machine
Always a Prisoner
Wrapped in You
The Day They Came
The Way of the Warrior
Loyalty or the Law
Heaven All Over You
Nature of the Heart
If You Could
Don't Sink Me
Parade of Broken Men
Holy Rollers
Loose Parade
The Average Girl
The Average Boy
The Average Ones
Respect for the Dead
Wolves in the Nursery
Visions of Mordecai
Foreign Doubt
Freedom Unlocked
Waiting for some Kindness
Jet Fueled Woman
Your Love is a Hurricane
Sin Heals a Broken Heart
Prisoner of the Heart
Talent of the Backseat
27 Megatons of Pain
Nobody Gets out of Here Alive
Beat Orgy
Memories of Earth
You and Me
Throw Me in the Dungeon
Fairground Sinner
Eternal Madman
Sword of Steel
High Caliber
Eaten Alive
Room for Debate
Lovely Loneliness
Check the Time
Guilty Culture
Mighty Monday
Bang you're Dead
Same Every Day
Nietzsche Killed My Father
Looking Through the Skylight
There Are No Words
Modern Cop
We Could Just Die
For or Against
Still Intact
Everybody Needs at Least One Shadow
So Much For The Showroom
Realism Won't Stop Me
Creativity
Too Much Stimulation
The Great Flood
Blademaster
Persistence of the Sun
Warped Memories
Box of Warmth
Vortex
Not Enough Firepower
Sober School
Golden Rainbow
Killing You with Mercy
You Never Loved Me
Selfish Suicide
There's no Reason
Into an Early Grave
My Sin
Love Nugget
Sitting Around Dying of Hunger
Militantly Sleepy
Suffering From Death
The Ballad of Snappy and Delilah
No Need for Saturday
The Bath Gnomes Will Get You
Rockets in the Gazebo
Good Christ, All the Bodies in the Sahara
Pepper Spray the Mind-Controlled Loser
Too Confused to Commit a Crime
As Long as the Night is Black
My Brokenness
All Clothes, no Socks
Holding Santa Hostage
Feminism for 99 Cents
Fortune Cookies Lie
Babies And Napalm
Infinity in 28 Steps
The Lump Who Loves Me
Veneer of Chickenness
In the First Degree
Too Hot Can't Stop
Slipping Away
Ode to Spring
Look Around You
Look on My Works And Despair
Rigellian Surprise
Corrupting You
Final Nights
Nobody in Particular
Angel Tears
Brick by Brick
The Low Road
Ghosts of the Dead
Nuclear Summer
Our Love is a Fortress
Cruel Envy
Gonna Rock Your World
Midnight Surprise
Bloodstains
Missing You
You Give Me the Strength to Go On
You Could Just Die
Full of Teeth
A Spying Shame
Glittering Prizes
You Wound Me
Silent Rage
Everything is Made of You
Stormy Winds
Native Son
Fully Prepared
Melting Point
Boiling Point
Freezing Point
The Quickening
Love is a Boot
Sweet Release
None of Them Knew They Were Humans
Chains of Ice
Monkey Butter
Kind Alpha's Thesis
Bloody Storm
Noble Priest
Have You Heard the Tragedy
Not a Story the Quarg Would Tell You
Burger Truck In
No Strangers to Love
bad blue
booster
core
death stick
deep
fire apple
flavor drop
good red
happy stick
hot wing
memory chip
quasar
red giant
ringworld shaving
solaris joyride
southern snack
space weed%
stardust%
steam%
toad juice%
whale blubber%
${drugs}%s
biochemical weapons
conflict minerals
counterfeit artwork
counterfeit sculptures
counterfeit credits
drugs
embargoed goods
endangered animals
endangered plants
enriched uranium
explosives
fake organs
forged IDs
human hearts
human brains
human kidneys
human bones
human lungs
illegal firearms
military weapons
napalm
nerve gas
outlawed pesticides
pig hearts
pig kidneys
pig lungs
plundered artifacts
slaves
stolen artifacts
stolen artwork
stolen identities
stolen ship parts
stolen weapons
stolen blueprints
stolen records
stolen data
torture devices
unregistered IFF modules
undeclared nuclear fuel
untraceable electronics
weaponized chickens
weaponized pigs
weaponized cows
holovid
holofilm
franchise
film series
show
series
soap opera
horror film
romantic film
comedy film
sitcom
sci-fi series
fantasy film
kids show
You should watch the video of
Tune your feed to the video of
Just watched the video of
I'm listening to
 on Skymoot!
 on New Sydney!
 on Splashdown!
 on Hestia!
 on Earth!
 on Heartland!
 on Vail!
 on New China!
You should check out the latest installment of 
I gotta admit, I'm hooked on 
Once I finish my trip, I'm catching up on 
I'm off to a fan convention for 
Gotta say, I enjoy watching 
." It's 
definitely 
easily 
maybe 
perhaps 
best 
coolest 
weirdest 
funniest 
most shocking 
most fascinating 
most surreal 
most surprising 
most enjoyable 
most original 
most engrossing 
out there!
I've seen in ages!
this year!
yet!
and deserves an award!
and you should watch it!
that nobody's heard of.
of all time!
On boring trips, I waste time watching
Sometimes, I can't help but watch
I can't believe that people enjoy
I can't believe I'm hooked on
Can you believe it? An award went to
Last trip, I saw
A week ago, my crew watched
I wasted lots of time viewing
I'm never getting back the time I lost to
," definitely
," easily
," without a doubt
." It's
." It has to be
," which everyone knows is
," which is obviously
worst
cheesiest
stupidest
most boring
most predictable
most ridiculous
most pretentious
most poorly acted
most overrated
I've ever seen!
to date.
in the last decade.
ever made!
Man, 
Ugh, 
You know, 
Jeez, 
I can't believe
I don't know why
I have no idea why
I don't understand why
It's a mystery why
It's burning me up that
It's so weird that
Nobody can explain to me why
I can hardly imagine why
the kids are
people are
anyone is
everyone's
my crew is
some of my friends are
all the oldsters are
 still
following
listening to
paying attention to
giving their money to
paying to listen to
so in love with
 that group
 that new group
 that band
 that new band
 those hacks
Their music
is horrible
is terrible
is insufferable
is garbage
is such trash
is so irritating
is so bad
is junk
is filthy
is offensive
is an embarrassment
is ear-splitting
is completely derivative
is totally unoriginal
is nauseating
is more like random noise
is an affront to good taste
gives its whole genre a bad name
glorifies all the wrong things
is a tool of the Devil
goes against common decency
ought to be banned
hurts my ears
makes me ill
That
That new
That awesome
That awesome new
The new
song
is so great
is my kind of music
is my new favorite
is stuck in my head... again
is pure genius
is awesome
is totally rad
is the best
is the only thing I'm listening to
plays on repeat in my bunk
tops everything
is playing full blast throughout my ship
is the hit of the year
is the best thing going
is the best thing playing right now
 Have you heard it yet?
 You gotta hear it!
 I was into them before they were popular.
 Check it out!
 Check 'em out!
 I can't wait to see it performed live!
Hi there
Hello
Good day
Greetings
Salutations
Nice to meet you
Nice to see you again
All clear
Affirmative
I read you
On screen
See you later
See you round the 'verse
Stay safe
fellow captain
captain
peace
luck
fortune
good fortune
prosperity
the Force
fair winds
clear skies
the best of luck
fair winds and bright skies
Allah
the power of Heaven
Heaven's blessings
the Way and the Light
the immortal Tao
be with you!
be with you today!
journey with you!
go with you!
follow in your wake!
be with you in your travels!
always be with you!
Becoming
Life as
The life of
an independent
a free
a freelancer
merchant
courier
trader
ship captain
starship captain
spaceship captain
pilot
ship pilot
starship pilot
spaceship pilot
galaxy-trotter
is harder than it looks
is almost impossible
is so simple a child could do it
isn't too bad as long as you avoid going into debt
is hard at first, but it gets a lot easier over time
offers the best life in the galaxy
is the biggest thrill you'll ever know
is the only way to control your own destiny
is the only way to be truly free in this day and age
is the only path to genuine freedom
is a challenge, but ultimately rewarding
gives you the opportunity to see the whole galaxy
is the best thing
is the most wonderful experience
has really opened my mind
provides valuable experience
The best way to achieve success is to
Here's a word of advice:
A word of advice:
Take my advice:
Here's a secret:
The secret to success is to
Want my opinion? You should
Be like the best ship captains and
Don't forget to
If you want to succeed,
pay off your mortgage as quickly as possible
make extra payments on your mortgage whenever you can
have a fast ship that can outrun the pirates
buy a ship with a lot of bunks for passengers
buy a ship with a big cargo bay
fly a ship that isn't totally defenseless against pirates
stick to the safe parts of the galaxy
take a lot of risks at the beginning so you can afford a better ship ASAP
keep your ship running cool to confuse Meteor Missiles
invest in a bigger reactor and downsize your batteries
always install a ramscoop
always install an afterburner
always install a scram drive
double up your shield generators so nothing gets through
prefer passenger jobs to cargo jobs; they pay better
say no to drugs
avoid carrying illegal cargo
just have fun and don't sweat it
buy a fleet with similar fuel capacity
always check the spaceport
try to align yourself with a bigger organization
remove stock shield generators and use the spare space for other outfits
uninstall any radar jammers on your ship. They're useless
use loans to get money to make money
reduce the cost of your ships by using batteries over bigger generators
always keep sufficient distance to fire your long-range weapons first
The best
The preferred
A good
A sensible
The most effective
Some people think that the
I refuse to believe that the
 way to 
be safe from pirates
stay safe from pirates
keep the pirates at bay
avoid pirates
deal with pirates
 is to 
stay close to the Paradise Worlds and the Deep
avoid the Dirt Belt systems
stay far away from systems they control near the edges of the galaxy
stick to systems patrolled by the Navy
get so rich that you can just buy them off
outfight the small ones, and outrun the big ones
blast them to bits with Particle Cannons before they can get within close range
put a pair of Heavy Laser Turrets on each of your cargo ships
blow them out of the sky with a barrage of missiles before they can get anywhere near you
buy a light warship that still has decent passenger capacity
fly a multipurpose ship that has room for cargo, shields, and heavy weapons
equip Anti-Missile Turrets so they can't get you with missiles, and then you can run away
have a fleet with interceptors to tie them up while the cargo ships can warp to safety
slap on a scram drive and easily jump away
overheat them with a plasma volley
leave yourself unarmed, so they don't prioritize you
use an array of Proton Turrets, to attack from afar
use bigger cargo ships, so your fleet is harder to destroy
avoid taking jobs near the frontier
not to use so many cargo ships that you become irresistible to them
You won't believe
You couldn't imagine
It's absurd
It's ridiculous
It's bizarre
 how much 
rich people
retirees
artists
celebrities
politicians
nerds
programmers
scientists
tourists
 are willing to pay for 
antique swords
bawdy magazines
cigars
cocktail dresses
cognac
custom pens
designer clothing
designer suits
dueling sabers
exotic carpets
exotic hardwoods
fine furniture
golf clubs
grandfather clocks
handbags
lawn furniture
live lobsters
luxury fabrics
mineral water
monogrammed handkerchiefs
numismatic folders
orchids
paintings
paragliders
perfume
pocket watches
porcelain
replica Ming vases
replica tribal masks
saffron
silver spoons
surfboards
tobacco
Venetian blinds
yachts
. Not that I'm complaining.
Wanna hear a joke?
What did the beaver say to the log? It was nice gnawing you!
Why did the chicken cross the road? To get to the other side!
Where do astronauts hang out? At the space bar!
What is a Syndicate salesman's favorite drink? Whatever the Syndicate tells him it is!
Why does the Navy hate neighbors? Because the grass is greener on the other side!
What has two heads, six feet, two arms, and one tail? A person on a horse!
What is the monster under your bed scared of? You!
You!
What's black and white and red all over? A newspaper!
Getting recruited by the Navy!
Your ship!
What does 1+1=? A window!
How did the pond get an A in English? Because it could reed!
Why do snowmen have noses? Because it s-nose!
What does a brain and winter have in common? They both s-know!
What did the system of Kornephoros say after figuring out the meaning of life? That's pretty Deep.
Why do most scientists go diving? Because they love the Deep!
What did the system of Sabik say after hearing a conspiracy theory? That's a Longjump.
Why did the system of Rastaban want to be a ballerina? Because there was a little Dancer in him!
Why do secret agents wish that there was an earthquake on Martini? Because they want it shaken, not stirred!
What do Phurad and an oyster have in common? They both have a Pearl in them!
Why was the pirate warlord happy after taking Pherkad? Because it gave him Solace!
What's worse than snakes on a ship? Serpens 'round a system!
What's the most common name on Vinci? Leonardo!
What did they change Uranus' name to? Urass!
Why doesn't the system of Kursa need a telescope? Because it's a Farseer!
Why was the pirate warlord disappointed after taking the system of Kochab? Because it was only a Mere victory!
Why wasn't anybody concerned when the system of Kaus Australis lost one of its legs? Because it was already a Hopper!
Where should you go for a horn of plenty? Kappa Centauri!
What do the Quarg say to people doing annoying things? That's Enif of that!
What do you call a pointless atmosphere? Skymoot!
Why is the system of Graffias a bad assassin? Because she can only Poisonwood!
Why does Gomeisa always have a cold? Because he always s-Nifel-s!
What music does Girtab like? Pieces with Harmony!
Why is medical equipment so important in Gamma Corvi? Because lots of people are Bourne there!
Why is Fomalhaut so boring? Because it's run of the Millrace!
Why did so many people end up watching the show about Elnath? Because it had a good Pilot!
Why is it difficult to navigate through Dubhe? Because there's a thick Haze!
Why do engineers go to Diphda? Because they like to Tinker!
What is a robot's least favorite planet? Rust!
What do you call a spaceship with no engines? A groundship!
Don't trust stairs. They are always up to something.
How many Hestians does it take to change a lightbulb? Four! An electrician does the work, and the butler, manager and housekeeper supervise.
How many Wayfarers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they don't use such old technology there!
How many Moonshakers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, it's all out-sourced to off-worlders.
How many Alexandrians does it take to change a lightbulb? One, they are very educated and capable people.
How many Earthlings does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, one to change the lightbulb and two to clear the way through the crowds of people.
How many Venusians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, there are no people living on Venus!
How many Martians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they let the visiting Earthy laborers change their lightbulbs.
How many New Bostonians does it take to change a lightbulb? I have no idea, never been there.
How many Delvians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, the room caves in before you can replace the bulb.
How many Sinterians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they just send in a robot to do the job.
 What? Not funny?
 Hey, I thought it was good!
 C'mon, at least laugh a little!
 Why are you booing?
 What's with the groaning?
 Pretty clever, right?
 Took me a day to come up with that.
 Geddit?
Did you watch the game? The
I heard the
It was shocking how the
I can't believe the
Just like I expected, the
Gophers
Quasars
Dragons
Dire Wolves
Reapers
Quants
Hellcats
Piledrivers
Steamrollers
Spectres
Chameleons
Cavaliers
Ogres
Thundergods
Stonemasons
Plasmaticas
Greasemonkeys
Void Dragons
Goers
Psyches
totally beat the
creamed the
trounced the
almost lost to the
defeated the
played an epic game against the
destroyed the
utterly humiliated the
narrowly beat the
demolished the
smashed the
walloped the
Jabberwocks
Turlingdroves
Passenger Pigeons
Sequoias
Presidents
Aardvarks
Raiders
Greyhounds
Sandstorms
Wreckers
Boogeymen
Black Widows
Goblins
Airhammers
Redeemers
Antelopes
Pythons
Rackets
Space Bears
 last night
 yesterday
 this morning
 the other day
, as usual
 this afternoon
. You shoulda seen it!
. I wish my feed was clearer.
Just delivered a load of
Finally dropped off some
Dropped off my cargo of
Just made a big delivery of
limburger cheese
bleu cheese
livestock
cattle
garlic
sheep
fertilizer
manure
processed sewage
lab mice
ammonia
lutefisk
sulfur
secondhand socks
compost
fish heads
rotten fruit
sludge
unprocessed sewage
. My
, and now my
ship's 
poor 
poor ship's 
beautiful ship's 
delicate ship's 
pristine ship's 
hold
cargo hold
cargo bay
totally reeks!
smells awful!
is going to smell bad for weeks!
still stinks!
needs to be hosed down!
is gonna need one heck of a chemical bath!
desperately needs a sonic scrubbing!
needs to be torched!
deserves to be put down!
has to be replaced!
Some
A couple
A few
 of my 
passengers
guests
clients
roomers
VIP passengers
 inexplicably 
 stupidly 
decided to eat
went and ate
decided they would have
made the bad choice of having
 a meal of 
 a serving of 
asparagus
beans
from my cargo hold.
in the spaceport.
in my ship.
I'm gonna leave them at the closest inhabited planet
I'm happy they're leaving on the next stop
I've told them to leave at my next stop
I've got no choice but to leave them at my next stop
, let them reek in someone else's ship
, I don't want them stinking my ship up
, because the toilets are stinking, badly
Do you know anybody from 
Do you know anything about 
Have you heard anything about 
Have you ever thought about 
Alfheim
Bourne
Skymoot
Sinter
Featherweight
Canyon
Hermes
Hippocrates
Splashdown
Burthen
Crossroads
Clink
Watcher
Stormhold
Mutiny
Do you know anybody who has ever been there
Do you ever wonder why nobody lives there
Have you ever wondered why nobody goes there
Have you heard anything about what goes on there
Have you ever seen any news about that world
No? I believe that place just doesn't exist
Even the Republic couldn't confirm that it exists
That place is not real; it is just an illusion
I'm sure something's going on there
'They' want to make us believe the place actually exists
It's all just a cover for 'their' machinations
There must be a reason why 'they' never mention it
I reckon those Reps are keeping something hidden there
I bet you something is going on there that the Reps don't want you to know
Republic Intelligence doesn't want you to know what's going on there
I reckon the Reps are keeping some Alphas there
It's all a cover for the Reps' secret Alpha colony
I'm convinced that Alphas are running the Republic from there
That's because there's a secret Alpha colony there the Reps don't want you to know about
It's all a front for the Quarg
It's all a conspiracy by the Quarg
I'm convinced the Quarg are using it as a staging post
The Quarg must be using it to manipulate our government
Man, it feels bad
I hate it
It's the worst feeling
It's so annoying
What really ticks me off is
What I really hate is
 when 
 whenever 
it turns out that you've transported your cargo to the wrong place.
pirates get the jump on you before you can move.
I accidentally accept the wrong job.
I just barely miss the deadline of a job.
I run out of fuel in an uninhabited system.
I have to pay for landing.
I'm just short of a new ship.
I instantly lose that ship I saved up for.
I get locked trying to jump while some pirates push me around with missiles.
a sly pirate uses a fast ship armed with missiles to bombard me from afar.
my anti-missile can't destroy even a single missile.
my autopilot brings me to the wrong planet in the system.
it turns out that I've accepted missions for two different planets in the one system.
my ship spends all its power on regenerating shields instead of firing.
my escorts suicide themselves into close-quarters with pirates.
my passengers are afraid and cry during the whole trip.
one of my passengers becomes space-sick and creates a horrible mess.
one of my passengers throws up and I have to clean up for days.
I can't unload my cargo because somebody messed up the paperwork.
Watch out for
Be on your guard against
Look out for
You're likely to be targeted by
There's an increasing risk of
You'll probably run into
Be wary of all those
You'll want to steer clear of
Try to avoid all the
Steer clear of all the
Make sure to avoid
Be on the lookout for
pirates
pirate fleets
pirate raiders
privateers
pirate raids
pirate ships
criminals
renegades
thugs
scam artists
raiders
marauders
looters
if you're
if you ever find yourself
when you're
should you ever be
flying through
visiting
traveling through
crossing through
passing through
exploring
doing jobs in
the far North
the southern Rim
the stars closest to the Core
uninhabited systems
empty systems
unsettled systems
the Dirt Belt
less wealthy systems
poorer parts of the galaxy
the Southern Rim
the edges of Syndicate space
The safest way to earn money is by
You can earn a good living by
They say you can turn a good profit
You'll have good luck earning money
You can earn a steady income
The best way to pay your bills is by
It never hurts to supplement your income by
I've found that you can make a lot of money quickly
If you're hurting for cash, you can try
finding a trade route that pays well in both directions.
looking for particularly good trade routes.
carrying tourists to and from their destinations.
taking on rush missions.
adding extra bunk rooms to your ship.
upgrading your ship for extra cargo capacity.
taking a bunch of missions to the same region of space.
transporting goods with a ship that has a big cargo hold.
bringing food and equipment to the Paradise Worlds.
selling luxury goods on the Paradise Worlds.
transporting metals to the Southern Rim planets.
selling medical goods in the Southern Rim.
freighting metals across the Deep.
ferrying people with a ship that can accommodate a lot of passengers.
checking what goods you can turn a profit on wherever you're headed next.
escorting the big freighters armed with anti-missile defenses.
disabling small isolated pirate ships and selling their equipment.
looking for jobs in the spaceport.
helping out the local government.
It's a bit dangerous
It's risky
It's difficult
It's questionable
Some say that it's bad
You can get yourself killed
You might die
You might get in trouble
Don't tell anybody
, but 
if I'm low on cash, I
I like to
my preferred profit method is to
I think the best way to make money is if you
it's quick to make money if you
take on bounty jobs
transport illegal goods
hunt down pirates
transport fugitives
board and capture pirates
mine asteroids at the edges of human space
The crew of this ship has long suspected that
One of my favorite jokes is to say
One of my favorite comedy routines is to say that
the leaders of the Syndicate
the Quarg
the Paradise Worlds
the rich worlds
big corporations
the big corporations
the banks
the Syndicate worlds
don't have our best interests at heart.
have secrets that they aren't telling us.
are keeping secrets from the rest of the galaxy.
are only watching out for their own interests.
don't care about anyone but themselves.
are just using us for their own gain.
are manipulating events in the galaxy.
know things that they are not telling us.
are getting rich off the hard work of everyone else.
are more powerful than they let on.
are aware of more alien species than they publicly admit.
are secretly behind the recent increase in pirate activity.
are deliberately trying to hurt the Dirt Belt planets.
are scared of the truth.
are always lying to us.
are nowhere near as bad as people think.
are actually great!
are completely trustworthy!
try to do right by people.
are just doing the best they can.
actually do have our best interests at heart.
are basically honest.
just do their best, for the most part.
are just trying to get along, same as you and me.
are a bunch of big softies deep down inside.
think they know best, but they really don't.
are manipulating commodity prices.
are out to consume the whole galaxy's resources and leave scraps for the rest of us!
are building a superweapon to destroy us all!
are secretly being controlled by the Lizard Illuminati!
are under the control of a hidden race of chipmunk aliens!
are being controlled by a secretive group of humans who support the Alphas!
are being influenced by a liberal federation of aliens!
are doing the bidding of an alien hivemind with yellow blood!
are actually bird people who hate the environment!
are trying to make snails with ships as shells!
get together to play foosball every Thursday on Luna!
love black, shiny cubes.
do secret deals with pirates.
are aiding the Alphas.
are secretly taking out Alpha enclaves.
It's getting harder and harder to
It used to be easier to
It shouldn't be so difficult to
So many people are struggling to
There must be an easier way to
It's the government's job to make it possible for a person to
Parliament needs to do more to help citizens to
Something needs to be done about how hard it is to
I've nearly given up on being able to
This economy makes it almost impossible to
The government makes it almost impossible to
No one seems to be able to
I'm finally able to
At long last, I can
These days, nobody can
These days, you just can't
I wish I could
I'm worried that I can't
I don't know why people can't
Some people just can't seem to
It's more complicated than you think to
Even if you get a good start, it can become tedious to
It's a rather boring task to
earn a living
make a living
pay off a mortgage
avoid going into debt
avoid pirate attacks
buy a better ship
own and maintain a starship
pay for ship upgrades
travel through the Southern Rim safely
have a decent shot at a better life
feel safe
pay all these taxes
be an independent merchant
stay in business as an independent merchant
live an independent merchant's life
save any money
I've
found
been using
been plying
stumbled upon
some
a few
a couple of
a couple
a number of
really 
very 
extremely 
exceptionally 
interesting
good
lucrative
profitable
rewarding
worthwhile
trade routes, but I'm not
trade routes, but there's no way I'm
divulging
revealing
telling
disclosing
the secrets
the paths
them
to you
to anyone
to anybody
to anyone else
to anybody else
to another trader
to my competition
I just gave a lift to
I transported
My last passenger was
Got stuck with
this
rich kid
spoiled brat
salesman
fancy lady
old man
retired cop
college student
They just wouldn't shut up about
They couldn't stop talking about
They yammered on about
All they would talk about was
 this band
I just don't get it
I'm not that into music
I prefer classical works
I don't care for them
their latest song wasn't too bad
I kind of liked their latest song
the songs that my passenger played weren't too bad
Some times I hear
I've heard rumors
It's a common myth
I've heard
 that 
smugglers
thieves
 sometimes 
transport 
smuggle 
steal 
plunder 
The other day
A couple weeks ago
Last week
someone
some invertebrate
some idiot
some cheapskate
tried to get me to do
wanted me to do
tried to trick me into doing
a job that paid only
a gig for only
something for just
credits per jump
credits for every day of travel
It's becoming an epidemic.
People these days are so reluctant to pay us what we're worth.
How stupid did that guy think I was?
What idiot would take that kind of job?
I regret being so polite.
Apparently people think we'll work for exposure.
Not to mention this ship is not designed for a job like it.
Don't go for
Don't participate in
Stay away from
badly organized races
inheritance scams
shady transport jobs
hitman transports
I lost 20,000 credits on one of those.
I nearly got killed in one.
The Navy almost arrested me.
Those can ruin your life!
They're usually too good to be true.
They take your money, and you won't get anything in return.
I have a delivery for
I'm looking for
My passengers need to go to
Dune
Earth
Foundry
Glaze
Moonshake
Norn
Skillet
, but my starmap doesn't list it.
; do you know where I can find it?
; have you ever heard of it?
; that planet shouldn't be too far from here.
; which hyperlane should I take to get there?
I almost collided with
I bumped into
I found
I picked up
an antique teapot
a convertible car
some old memory capsule
between Earth and Mars
around Earth
around Mars
 Can you believe that?
 Do you want to see it?
 It was in an unstable orbit.
 Must have been launched in the old days.
 Unbelievable what people sent into space back then.
Check out the
Look for the
race
stunt pilots flying in formation
in the Deep
in Syndicate space
through the Paradise Worlds
I was there last month.
The next event will be great!
That's real entertainment!
Me and my friend
had a job
worked for years
creating pixel art
creating computer games
creating 3D computer models
creating websites on the Worlds Wide Web
cleaning corridors in an university
delivering furniture to people's houses
documenting complex processes
farming in the Dirt Belt
installing domotics into rich customers houses
making large amounts of ketchup
moving furniture from warehouses to shopping centers
painting car tires black
packing fast food into boxes
setting up software integration processes
spreading news to hundreds of people
teaching mathematics to high school kids
bartending
testing computer fabrication machines
writing firmware for embedded computer chips
, and look what a nice ship I'm flying now.
, and now I'm retired and flying spaceships for fun.
, but being a pilot on a spaceship beats it all.
, but I still had to take a big loan to buy my first ship.
, but it was my grandma's inheritance that allowed me to buy this ship.
Don't be too picky about the jobs you take. It's better to
ship crooks, than have a crooked ship.
ship slugs, than have a sluggish ship.
ship bad bands, than have your ship badly banned.
be working hard at shipping, than have your ship hardly working.
Ey Comrade,
your ship has loaded on a planet? I have loaded a planet onto my ship.
you have cargo in your ship? I have ships in my cargo.
you have fighters in your bays? We have bays in our fighters.
Somebody
Some nut
placed
a blue phonebooth
a silver car
on my bridge
in my armory
in my cargo hold
claimed to be
a time traveler
from another time
, and suddenly they disappeared.
, but the only travel he did was to a mental institution.
. I still don't know how she got into my spaceship.
. The thing looked bigger on the inside than on the outside.
I bought 
a power generator
my new thrusters
some toothpaste
from
the ACME company
the Astronomical Conglomeration of Manufacturing Entities
, a company many times smaller than the Syndicate.
, a minor company, but with much better service than the Syndicate.
, a pretty insignificant company located on just one planet.
, but next time, I'll buy from the Syndicate again.
I heard
I read a rumor
I found out
I've learned
 that if you have 
at least ten spare bunks
space for at least ten passengers
at least 50 spare tons of cargo space
enough space for 50 tons of cargo
then you'll be ready for anything life throws at you
then there isn't an odd job from the spaceport that you won't be able to do
then you might get lucky and have just enough room to help out some celebrities
The Navy
 is here to
 is obligated to
 is always ready to
 is always here to
 will never hesitate to
 will always be here to
 will always
 will always be ready to
 exists to
's mission is to
's goal is to
's duty is to
's directive is to
protect
defend
safeguard
guard
keep you safe
serve
you.
Join
Enlist in
 the Navy. 
Tour
Explore
Defend
Protect
Travel
View
the galaxy
the Republic
the Core
the Rim
the South
the Deep
Enlist in 
the Navy,
biggest
largest
greatest
most prestigious
most worthwhile
most honorable
most respected
most rewarding
humanitarian
peacekeeping
defense
civil service
volunteer
organization
force
in the galaxy
in the Republic
of all humanity
of all mankind
Dying
Getting wounded
Taking a hit
Injury
Sustaining injury
during
a firefight
a dogfight
a conflict
a confrontation
an engagement
battle
space battle
combat
 is 
heroic
noble
honorable
respectable
admirable
commendable
if such action helps to
if it helps us to
if that sacrifice helps us to
when it helps your brothers and sisters in arms to
when on duty to
when it helps us to
when we are able to
when that sacrifice helps us to
but our duty is to
but our real job is to
but our goal is to
but we are duty-bound to
but we must
but our mission is to
but our directive is to
but we must focus on
but only when it helps us to
but our focus should be to
but only if it helps the Navy to
but my commander expects me to
but we are expected to
but it would be more efficient if we
but the universe expects us to
but that is for nought if it does not help to
but it is wasted if it does not help to
but that sacrifice has greater meaning when it helps us to
but that sacrifice only means something when it helps us to
destroy
imprison
detain
eliminate
expel
fend off
drive back
defeat
prevail over
thwart
warlords
terrorists
insurrectionists
seperatists
our adversaries
our enemies
our foes
enemies of freedom
enemies of liberty
enemies of democracy
Be thankful to
Be grateful to
Thank
the Republic for
the Navy for
providing
ensuring
giving you
giving us
giving humanity
giving mankind
three centuries
three hundred years
ten generations
 of 
freedom
liberty
democracy
protection
security
guardianship
plenty
The Republic
 has 
 for 
protected
guarded
defended
these skies
our galaxy
the Far North
the Near Earth sector
mankind
humanity
merchant ships
 from piracy
 from pirates
 from marauders
 from disorder
 from instability
 from anarchism
 from insurrection
 from those who threaten freedom
 from those who threaten liberty
 from those who threaten democracy
piracy
crime
instability
chaos
conflict
autocracy
authoritarianism
regionalism
division
disunity
disorder
disarray
discord
devastation
turmoil
oppression
insurrection
civil war
fragmentation
anarchism
patroled
policed
watched over
maintained the peace in
kept you safe
kept humanity safe
assisted you
been the guardian of humanity
been the protector of humanity
been the defender of humanity
promoted
encouraged
advanced
given you
striven for
equality
unity
harmony
hope
 and order
 and justice
 and concord
 and safety
 and liberty
If you 
want
wish
desire
aspire
 to 
join the Navy!
enlist in the Navy!
Do you 
Join the Navy!
Enlist in the Navy!
The Navy fights
The Navy is here
The Navy exists
The Navy's duty is
The Navy's purpose is
We fight
We are here
We exist
We patrol these skies
We police these skies
Our duty is
Our purpose is
Your cooperation is greatly valued.
We thank you for your cooperation.
We appreciate your complicance.
Be thankful for our protection.
Be grateful for our protection.
Be thankful for our sacrifice.
Be grateful for our sacrifice.
Remember that our sacrifice is for your sake.
distinguish yourself
prove yourself
prove your piloting skills
prove your worth as a captain
contribute to something bigger than yourself
serve your state
serve humanity
serve the Republic
serve for democracy
save lives
improve the livelihoods of others
be the guardian of humanity
be the protector of humanity
be the defender of humanity
be the guard
fight
advance the struggle
see justice done
 against 
slavers
those who threaten democracy
those who threaten freedom
those who threaten the Republic
those who threaten peoples' lives
those who threaten peace
those who threaten our Republic
fight for 
defend 
protect 
advance 
law and order
human rights
peoples' lives
peoples' livelihoods
peoples' rights
guard 
 from the 
scourge
menace
threat
evils
ensure
advance
maintain
uphold
 throughout human space
 among the stars
 the integrity of 
 the strength of 
Parliament's mandate
our laws
Republic law
Parliament
United, humanity stands. Divided we will fall.
Humanity must stand united in a universe that seeks to push us apart.
Where the universe pulls humanity apart, the Republic unites humanity together.
Answer the call of duty! Join the Navy!
If you have courage, if you have honor, join the Navy!
We want YOU for the Navy!
The Navy is in need of good captains like you! Join the Navy!
There is no greater service than to serve your state. Join the Navy!
You can count on the Navy to serve you.
Peace among the stars. May you remember that.
's goal:
's motto:
's goal is to create
's goal is to ensure
 seeks
 wishes for
 strives for
 aspires to achieve
 seeks to achieve
 strives to achieve
 is advancing
 ensures
 promotes
 believes in
 works for
 is here to ensure
 is here to advance
 is here to promote
peace among the stars.
We are obligated to inform you that all
Be warned that all
We warn you that all
We inform you that all
An injunctive warning: all
Under Republic law, all
By the decree of Parliament, all
By the laws of Parliament, all
By Republic law, all
We advise you that all
civilian 
merchant 
private 
vessels 
warships 
within 
passing through 
traveling in 
Republic space
the jurisdiction of the Republic
the Republic's jurisdiction
Parliament's jurisdiction
will undergo
will be subjected to
may be subjected to
are subject to
must comply with
periodic
random
regular
cargo
outfit
structural
scans
examinations
inspections
searches
sweeps
We are obligated to inform you that
Be warned that
We warn you that
We inform you that
An injunctive warning:
Under Republic law,
By the decree of Parliament,
By the laws of Parliament,
By Republic law,
We advise you that
planetary officials
Navy officers
border control officials
Gunboat patrols
Navy Gunboats
Gunboat forces
Gunboat monitors
Navy police forces
Navy forces
Republic forces
 will 
 must 
 may 
 on 
civilian
private
ships
vessels
warships
travelling in the Republic
travelling in Republic space
travelling in the Republic's jurisdiction
within the Republic's jurisdiction
landing on a Republic planet
landing within Republic territory
randomly 
regularly 
perform 
conduct 
run 
random 
regular 
It is 
illegal
prohibited
an illegal act
an illicit act
a criminal act
a punishable act
 under Republic law
 by the laws of the Republic
 by the laws of Parliament
willingly 
knowingly 
deliberately 
purposefully 
install 
use 
employ 
utilize 
illegal 
unauthorized 
unlicenced 
outfits
equipment
traffic 
trade 
deal 
carry 
${contraband}
engage in 
participate in 
become involved in 
the transportation of slaves
the trafficking of slaves
the trading of slaves
the galactic slave trade
slavery
operate 
pilot 
an unlicensed 
an unauthorized 
an illegal 
ship
warship
vessel
unlicensed 
attack
provoke
damage
disable
harm
plunder
seize control of
seize
Navy ships
corporate-affiliated ships
planetary security forces
corporate security forces
private ships
civilian ships
Republic ships
Syndicate ships
disrupt 
disturb 
interrupt 
the peace
the order
merchant activity
mercantile activity
economic activity
commercial activity
trade lanes
civil order
interdict
intercept
obstruct
impede
merchant vessels
civilian vessels
paint your ship in
paint your vessel in
decorate your ship in
decorate your vessel in
have your ship fly
have your ship display
display
colors that would label you as a pirate
markings that would label you as a pirate
colors that would suggest piracy
markings that would suggest piracy
illegal colors
illegal markings
uncivil colors
uncivil markings
pirate colors
pirate markings
anarchist colors
anarchist markings
Anybody
Any captain
Any starship captain
Any starship commander
 found in breach of 
 that has broken 
Republic law 
the laws of Parliament 
the laws of the Republic 
will be fined
will face fines
will face penalties
may face severe penalties
may be penalized
may be imprisoned
may be sentenced to prison
may be sent to a penal colony
may be declared an enemy of the Republic
may be considered an outlaw
may be considered a criminal
We are
on the lookout for
searching for
scanning for
 any 
suspicious
unusual
pirate
strange
criminal
unlawful
abnormal
irregular
behavior
activity
starships
Not a single
Not one
innocent life
innocent ship
inhabitant of this system
will die
will be harmed
will be killed
will be destroyed
on our watch
while we are around
while we are still flying
while we are still breathing
while we are here
Pirates
Criminals
Evil-doers
Threats to freedom
Threats to this system
Threats to this planet
Threats to our system
Threats to our planet
 beware
 be warned
, turn back now
, surrender now
The militia are here
The cavalry are here
The militia are on the watch
You won't beat us
We cannot be defeated
You cannot break our resolve
We will not bend to your masters
We will fight to the last ship
We will never surrender
We are the militia, 
defenders of freedom
defenders of the innocent
defenders of this system
defenders of this planet
defenders of this region
defenders of these skies
destroyers of pirates
destroyers of evil
destroyers of criminals
It wouldn't hurt
It would help a lot
It would improve many peoples' lives
This sector would be so much safer
Many lives would be saved
People would be happier
We would be grateful
The Southern Rim would be more prosperous
The Republic would be more prosperous
The galaxy would be more prosperous
The Southern Rim would be safer
The Republic would be safer
The galaxy would be safer
We would not have to sacrifice our lives for you
 if 
the Navy
the Reps
those representatives of Parliament
 would 
come down here and 
stop hiding up in the Paradise Worlds and 
stop licking the boots of the Syndicate and 
help us out with
assist us with
do anything about
do something about
send a fleet to help us with
send some ships to help us with
these pirates
these criminals
these warlords
these marauders
this rampant piracy
this rampant marauding
 the people in 
 the leaders of 
 those in power in 
come down here
stop ignoring our cries for help
take notice of our cries for help
stop acting deaf
listen to us
work with us
be useful for once
just get off their armchairs
${friendly militia 4 variation}
many peoples' lives would be improved
many lives would be saved
lives would be saved
people would be happier
we would be grateful
we would not have to sacrifice our lives for you
the Republic would be more prosperous
the galaxy would be more prosperous
the Republic would be safer
the galaxy would be safer
there would be "peace among the stars"
do something about 
do anything about 
help us with 
assist us with 
clear out 
deal with 
look at
discuss
understand
recognize
acknowledge
see for themselves
 what 
pirates have
criminals have
warlords have
marauders have
rampant piracy has
rampant marauding has
 done to 
our system
our planets
Smart captains know cargo space is key. Smart captains choose the Syndicate
Star Barge
Bulk Freighter
Freighter
Container Transport
The Syndicate
Bulk Freighter:
Freighter:
Star Barge:
Container Transport:
backbone
motor
center
heart
engine
the lifeblood
of the galactic economy
of galactic trade
of galactic civilization
Remember that unauthorized blaster modifications void the warranty. Buy from the Syndicate directly!
Smart captains choose Syndicated Shipyards, the gold standard for reliability.
Smart captains shop Syndicated Systems.
Trouble with Pirates? Hire a Syndicate Protector and your troubles will be over.
Syndicated Systems has your back!
In an uncertain galaxy, you can be certain about Syndicated Systems.
Syndicated Shipyards: the friend of honest merchants everywhere.
Greetings from Syndicated Systems.
Syndicated Shipyards offers well-engineered starships for every budget!
Become a Syndicate captain today!
Syndicate worlds are the modern-day land of opportunity!
Syndicated Systems: powering interstellar commerce, one reactor at a time.
Have you heard about the Syndicated Systems Proton Gun? Schedule a test-firing today!
Wish you had a turreted version of a Particle Cannon? Try the Proton Turret!
Lasers just not enough? Use the Proton Gun!
Pirates a problem? We have the solutions!
Money a problem? We have the solutions!
Particles too lofty? You should use the Proton Gun!
Heavy Turrets too large? Use a Quad Blaster Turret!
Beam Turrets too small? Install a Quad Blaster Turret!
Fusion too expensive? Try a Fission Reactor!
Radioisotopes too weak? Try a Fission Reactor!
Atomic engines too expensive? Use ion engines!
Plasma engines too intensive? Attach ion engines!
We have guns, turrets, engines, reactors, ships; the Syndicate has everything you need!
Smart
Intelligent
Wise
Bright
Intuitive
captains
ship captains
starship captains
choose
shop
go for
buy at
Syndicated Shipyards
Syndicated Systems
, the guarantee of quality!
, the gold standard for reliability!
, the epitome of affordability!
Welcome to Syndicate space
! Feel free to review our catalog of affordable starship outfits.
! Feel free to review our catalog of affordable starships.
! Would you be interested in purchasing any heavy metals today?
! We are transmitting you the latest Syndicated Systems product catalog!
! We serve you with pride!
! We serve our customers with pride!
! We hope you'll stay for this month's specials!
! Come for the low tax rates, stay for the affordable plutonium!
, the galaxy's largest free trade zone!
, the galaxy's most economically free region!
, the backbone of the Republic's industrial power!
, home of the buy-one-get-one-free deal for radioisotopes past their half-lives!
! Were you aware of our Plutonium recycling program?
! Did you know that the average ship contains 39% Syndicated Systems components by weight?
! If you're looking for affordable radioisotopes, you've come to the right place!
! Apply to become a Syndicated captain today!
! We welcome any and all applications to join the Syndicated Systems team!
Work for the Syndicate!
Join the Syndicate!
Have you considered Syndicated Systems for your next career move?
employees
salaries
benefits
compensation packages
stock options
business ethics
new technologies
shipyards
affordable outfits
user-friendly products
ethics
offers
dental plans
are the best!
are unmatched!
are unbeatable!
can't be beat!
will keep you smiling!
independent
wise
fair
just
courageous
self-sufficient
confident
equitable
brave
audacious
tenacious
bold
daring
valiant
! Be free!
Without
justice
sacrifice
courage
tenacity
there can be no
you cannot have
safety
Fight
Overthrow
Oppose
Stand up to
Defy
Speak out against
the Republic's 
the Syndicate's 
the Paradise Worlds' 
the Paradise Planets' 
corrupt
overbearing
decadent
crooked
nefarious
rotten
unscrupulous
debauched
profiteering
government
corporations
oligarchs
tycoons
bureaucrats
lobbyists
executives
! Join the Free Worlds!
We are Free forces
We are Free ships
We are the Free Worlds
defenders of
guardians of
protectors of
the innocent
this system
this planet
this region
For 
the Free Worlds
want to further
wish to further
want to advance
wish to advance
want to bolster
wish to bolster
want to strengthen
wish to strengthen
believe in
approve of
respect
stand by
 the principles of 
 the Free Worlds' struggle for 
 the cause of 
 our cause of 
welfare
individual freedoms
commonwealth
proper representation
have seen
know of
can see
have suffered from
have experienced
have been affected by
are affected by
cannot tolerate
cannot ignore
refuse to sanction
are witness to
Parliament's 
decadence
corruption
dishonesty
misconduct
fraudulence
manipulation
abuse of power
subversion
deceit
dirty politics
fraudulent dealings
loss
decay
our freedoms
our rights
our liberty
our autonomy
our self-determination
our representation
responsible government
lawful governance
 by the Republic
 by Parliament
 by the Syndicate
 by the Paradise Planets
join us
join the Free Worlds
become part of the Free Worlds
become a member of the Free Worlds
become a member of the Free forces
do not hesitate to join the Free Worlds
stand united with us
fight for us
fight with us
fight by our side
Threats to 
Those who threaten 
our planet
our livelihoods
the rule of law
Free forces are here
The might of the Free Worlds is here
The ships of the Free Worlds are here
The forces of the Free Worlds are here
We are determined to fight for our Free Worlds
We fight in the name of the Free Worlds
The Free Worlds will not bend to your masters
We will expel you from our systems
Fight for
Fight on the side of
Join us in advancing
The Free Worlds exist to advance
Our ships fight for
Our Free Worlds struggle for
We live in a struggle for
We struggle for
We fight for
We rally behind
Our fight is for
This is a struggle for
If you fight with us, you fight for
Stand for
Stand behind
Join us if you believe in
Stand united
Stand with us
Fight for freedom
Fight for self-determination
Fight for peace
Fight for justice
Fight for progress
Fight for your rights
Fight for your representation
Fight for your livelihood
Fight against oppression
Fight against decadence
Fight against corruption
There is no substitute for freedom
There is no substitute for democracy
There is no substitute for liberty
Join the Free Worlds in our struggle
Join us in our fight
Join us in our struggle
Fight for the Free Worlds
Fight for your future
Fight for prosperity
Fight for equality
There can be no
There is no
We cannot attain
We cannot guarantee
We cannot secure
We cannot gain
We cannot obtain
We cannot achieve
stability
success
order
"peace among the stars"
 without 
audacity
determination
fighting for it
struggle
representation
We can only attain
We can only guarantee
We can only secure
We can only gain
We can only obtain
We can only achieve
There is only
There can only be
 when there is 
 when we have 
a united vision
We're
You're looking at
You're in the presence of
baddest
strongest
fiercest
deadliest
scariest
nastiest
gnarliest
most savage
most dangerous
most vicious
most ferocious
most dreaded
 starship
 warship
 ship
in the
of the
universe
galaxy
'verse
cosmos
skies
taikong
Plundering
Blasting
Destroying
Robbing
Raiding
Pummeling
Crushing
Ravaging
Stealing from
Waylaying
merchants
villages
freighters
convoys
rich merchants
defenseless ships
weak ships
wimpy ships
enjoying
spending
piling up
hoarding
squandering
the loot
money
our gains
wealth
the booty
: I love the pirate's life!
: that's the way to live!
 is the best way to live!
 is how real anarchists live!
We just 
plundered
blasted
destroyed
raided
pummeled
crushed
robbed
ravaged
 a whole 
 an entire 
 the weakest 
 the wimpiest 
 the stupidest 
law enforcement
ship!
fleet!
convoy!
You better watch 
who you talk to
who you look at
who you hail
who you target
your back
your cargo
your ship
your fleet
around here
around these parts
around this system
around us
around me
tried this
used this
 new 
 crazy 
 amazing 
 fantastic 
 incredible 
 facinating 
stuff?
drug?
 It's the best!
 It's awesome.
 You'll have the best high ever.
 You'll feel like you're in heaven!
 I wish I could find more.
 I wish I could afford more.
 I'm going to need to make money to buy more!
 Best experience I've ever had!
 terrible 
 horrendous 
 atrocious 
 horrid 
space weed
stardust
steam
toad juice
whale blubber
 I couldn't see for a week
 I couldn't get out of bed for a week
 It felt like I was being eaten alive
 It felt like I had insects crawling under my skin
 I'm never taking that stuff again
 Worst experience I've ever had
recently
earned
made
thousands
thousands of credits
millions
millions of credits
selling ${contraband}
plundering merchants
fetching bounties
We heard
Word on the street is
 that a 
new batch of 
new delivery of 
new shipment of 
was just dropped off
was delivered here
is on its way
 Can't wait to buy some!
 Can't wait to buy them!
 Can't wait to check them out!
If any other captain is having trouble with their crew,
If anyone else is having trouble with their crew,
If you are having trouble with your crew,
 I suggest 
 try 
using a stick to beat them into submission
throwing them out the airlock
starving them until they listen
threatening to throw them out the airlock
threatening to kill them
threatening to shoot them
 It worked for me!
 I guarantee it works!
 It's been a 100% success rate for me so far!
 They'll never bother you again!
 If it doesn't work, you can always replace them!
 It's an old family trick!
Anyone
Anyone here
Any fellow pirates
Any fellow anarchists
up for buying
want to buy
looking for
 Just talk to me in the spaceport.
 Talk to me for a contact.
 You'll find some on the nearest pirate planet.
 You'll find some on the nearest anarchist planet.
 You'll find some on the nearest planet not oppressed by the man.
 You'll find some wherever the man does not go.
It surprises me
It surprises us
We're surprised
I'm surprised
It's interesting
It's surprising
civilians
rich civilians
non-pirates
maggots
worms
will come to
come here to
would ever
would come to us to
would come here to
risk themselves to
buy ${contraband} from
sell ${contraband} to
anarchists
We're short on supplies, so we
We haven't been on one for so long, so we
Come with us! We
You gotta come with us! We
're going
're about to go
're planning to go
 want to go
're going to go
're gonna go
on a raid on
on an assault on
on an attack on
raiding
assaulting
attacking
shooting up
blasting
pummeling
robbing
${pirate attack outcomes}!
the spaceport
the outfitter
the fuel depot
the weapons depot
some villages
some towns
a rival base
a rival post
a rival cell
a rival gang
a rival band
a competing base
a competing cell
a competing gang
a competing band
a base
a cell
a gang
a band
another gang
another band
another cell
our rivals
our competitors
some numbskulls
the Man
the Law
some of our friends
 in 
spaceport
outfitter
fuel depot
weapons depot
towns
a convoy
a fleet
a rival fleet
a competing fleet
another fleet
some merchants
some patrol ships
the long arm of the Law
 in a nearby system
 a couple systems away
 a couple of jumps away
 a couple jumps away
 only a few jumps away
 soon
 in a couple days
 in a few days
We're gonna 
We'll 
become super rich
get rich
be jumping in the cash
be crawling in credits
be swimming in money
be the top gang
be the apex gang
have so many ships
dominate them
humiliate them
destroy them
obliterate them
walk away with so much tribute
get out of there commanding a big warship
take their ships
take them over
take their credits
take their goods
They're gonna 
They'll 
become wormfood
become spacedust
become shipless
be a whole lot poorer
lose their position
be wiped off the starmap
get dominated
get humiliated
get destroyed
get obliterated
have to pay a lot of tribute
get wrecked
surrender quickly to our onslaught
surrender quickly
have no chance against us
Heh heh heh,
Ha ha ha,
Ho ho ho,
Speaking of targets,
Since we're sharing stories,
You wanna know something?
My ship's so cracked!
We're cracked!
My ship's so good!
Man,
Dude,
You can't beat this one!
You think you can take me on?
You think you can take us on?
You think you're big time?
Nah,
was at
participated in
fought at
battled at
was part of
had been
led the charge at
decided the fate of the battle at
singlehandedly won
was responsible for
coordinated
planned
executed
wasn't counting, but I musta' destroyed at least a dozen ships in
destroyed a Falcon with just Energy Blasters at
disabled a Leviathan with my shields down at
obliterated a Protector at
took on a Vanguard by myself at
took on three Ospreys at once at
battled four Splinters at
took out two Mantas in
blew up a couple Firebirds in
obliterated a few Argosies at
went toe-to-toe with a Bastion at
survived a Navy fleet at
ensured victory at
took out multiple ships at
that
 epic
 mega
 large
 big
 huge
 fat
 hard
 gnarly
 nasty
 crazy
 cosmic
 ambitious
 gargantuan
 ginormous
raid
assault
looting
storming
sacking
 at 
fattest
juiciest
plumpest
hugest
craziest
most cosmic
most enormous
most epic
most fat
most juicy
most greatest
most biggest
most fattest
most nasty
most gnarly
most plump
most ambitious
most crazy
sack
 ever
 in their history
 in history
 of all time
. ${pirate boast}
! ${pirate boast}
We made off with so many ships
We made off with so many credits
We made off with so much tribute
We made off with such a big haul
We're richer than David Turner
We're easily the richest pirates this side of Earth
We're easily the richest pirates this side of Hephaesteus
We've got more credits than we can count
We plundered more ships than we could count
We couldn't even count that many credits
We couldn't even count that many ships
You shoulda been there
You shoulda heard them scream
You shoulda brought along your guns
I'm not kidding
I'm not joking
I'm not one to joke
It's not a joke
We smoked their defense fleet
We obliterated their defense fleet
We decimated their defense fleet
We destroyed their defense fleet
They weren't even a match for us
We didn't lose a single ship
We beat them to a pulp
We sent them packing
It was too easy
That was one hell of a fight
That battle's going into the history books
I'm sure I blew up more than a dozen ships
Now that's who you're facing
That's who you're facing
Farpoint
Shroud
Sunracer
Prime
Follower
Maelstrom
Haze
Memory
Haven
Freedom
Zenith
Maker
Hephaesteus
Shangri-La
Delve
Sundive
Nimbus
Lodestone
Solace
Longjump
Deep
Wayfarer
New Britain
Rand
Starcross
New Argentina
New Tibet
New Holland
Heartland
Gemstone
Clark
Bounty
New Kansas
Thule
Smugglers' Den
Albatross
Bloodsea
Greenrock
It's the worst thing
It's terrible
The worst is
My day always gets ruined
 when I'm 
minding my own business
just flying through space
having fun
making credit
enjoying myself while
having a good time
 transporting 
 delivering 
 ferrying 
 hauling 
 supplying 
 exchanging 
 moving around 
 turning around 
and I get scanned by the Man.
and I get scanned by the Law.
and the long arm of the Law starts tapping on my shoulders.
and the Navy starts chasing me.
and there's a Gunboat waiting for me.
and one of my rivals notices me.
and a merchant goes to shoot at me.
and the militia starts chasing me.
and the Syndicate starts chasing me.
 More Interference Plating would have helped.
 This Interference Plating is useless!
 I could have gotten out faster if I had a scram drive.
 I know I should have installed more Interference Plating.
 If only I was strong enough to stand up to them.
 I would have blasted them out of the sky if I could!
 There were so many of them!
This game
 is open source. You can 
help out
improve the game
get involved
help make it a better game
assist us
make your mark on the universe
give back to the community
 by 
contributing detailed bug reports.
contributing typo fixes.
contributing constructive feedback.
contributing ideas for improvements.
contributing landscape photos.
contributing artwork.
contributing new ships of your own design.
contributing plugins.
contributing new special missions.
contributing new weapons or other outfits.
contributing improved planet descriptions.
contributing more varied hail messages.
joining conversations that create new content.
joining the Endless Sky Community Discord.
getting involved with the community.
submitting new pull requests with improvements and ideas.
Our ship has been disabled!
We've gotten ourselves in a bit of a situation!
We've lost control of our ship!
Our ship took quite the pounding!
Hey!
S.O.S! S.O.S!
Mayday! Mayday!
We're going under!
Please come board our ship and patch us up!
We would appreciate any help getting us running again!
Could you fly by and help us, please?
Requesting emergency repairs!
We need assistance!
Hey! 
You're a friendly, correct? 
You answered! 
Good to see a friendly face! 
Hey, please! 
Over here! 
Our ship is disabled,
We're kinda stuck here,
We're in a bit of a bind here,
We're stuck drifting around in this deathtrap,
Not to be a bother, but
could you lend a hand
can you get us back on our feet
would you help us
any chance you could get us up and running again
could you render assistance
can we receive some help
, please?
 quickly?
 so we can get out of here?
 as soon as possible?
? I don't want to get stranded here!
Hey,
Uh...
So...
In a bit of a situation...
I know this isn't convenient, but
This is awkward, but
is there a chance you could get us up and running again
can we get some help patching up our ship
Those
Them
 menacing
 damned
 marauding
 good-for-nothing
 annoying
 pesky
 sleazy
 scummy
bastards
snakes
weasels
wretches
scumbags
knaves
pieces of work
wrecked our ship!
left us drifting in space!
got the jump on us!
left us here to die!
disabled us!
fried most of our ship's functions!
suddenly came onto us!
bested us!
thought they could simply leave us here!
We could use any help we can get!
Could you lend a hand?
We can't seem to repair it ourselves, could you help?
We need help getting our ship running again!
Can you help us fix it, please?
Please help us!
I don't think we can hold out!
Please come and help!
Any chance you can get us out of this bind?
Any chance you could bail us out?
Well, this sucks. 
Darn it! 
Oh, great. 
I knew I should
I knew I shouldn't
have
installed those weapons
bought those engines
made a left
made a right
had a drink
waited to take off
listened to that top brass
tried that move I saw
swapped my ship out
. Don't rub it in, okay?
 yesterday.
Leave me alone, you
Go rot in hell, you
Don't you dare board me, you
You'd better hope we never meet again, you
You are a
I can't believe I'm at the mercy of such a
You'd better not cross me, you
My friends will avenge me, you
Stay away from me, you
How dare you, you
Back off, you
Alright, well played. Now go away, you
You piece of
Look what you did to my ship!
This is all your fault.
This isn't over.
You got lucky this time.
I'll make you regret that!
My beautiful ship!
Look what you've done!
I'm ruined!
Happy now?
Want a medal?
What do you want from me?
You're nothing special, you know?
artless
bawdy
beslubbering
bootless
churlish
cockered
clouted
craven
currish
dankish
dissembling
droning
errant
fawning
fobbing
froward
frothy
gleeking
goatish
gorbellied
impertinent
infectious
jarring
loggerheaded
lumpish
mammering
mangled
mewling
paunchy
pribbling
puking
puny
qualling
rank
reeky
roguish
ruttish
saucy
spleeny
spongy
surly
tottering
unmuzzled
vain
venomed
villainous
warped
wayward
weedy
yeasty
base-court
bat-fowling
beef-witted
beetle-headed
boil-brained
clapper-clawed
clay-brained
common-kissing
crook-pated
dismal-dreaming
dizzy-eyed
doghearted
dread-bolted
earth-vexing
elf-skinned
fat-kidneyed
fen-sucked
flap-mouthed
fly-bitten
folly-fallen
fool-born
full-gorged
guts-griping
half-faced
hasty-witted
hedge-born
hell-hated
idle-headed
ill-breeding
ill-nurtured
knotty-pated
milk-livered
motley-minded
onion-eyed
plume-plucked
pottle-deep
pox-marked
reeling-ripe
rough-hewn
rude-growing
rump-fed
shard-borne
sheep-biting
spur-galled
swag-bellied
tardy-gaited
tickle-brained
toad-spotted
unchin-snouted
weather-bitten
apple-john
baggage
barnacle
bladder
boar-pig
bugbear
bum-bailey
canker-blossom
clack-dish
clotpole
coxcomb
codpiece
death-token
dewberry
flap-dragon
flax-wench
flirt-gill
foot-licker
fustilarian
giglet
gudgeon
haggard
harpy
hedge-pig
horn-beast
hugger-mugger
joithead
lewdster
lout
maggot-pie
malt-worm
mammet
measle
minnow
miscreant
moldwarp
mumble-news
nut-hook
pigeon-egg
pignut
puttock
pumpion
ratsbane
scut
skainsmate
strumpet
varlot
vassal
whey-face
wagtail
Don't hurt me! Please!
Waaaaaa! Mommy!
Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire!
I hope
I pray that
the Militia
the Syndicate
burns
cuts
tears
chops
smashes
rips
blows
blasts
shoots
chews
pulls
mashes
saws
slices
skewers
off your head
out your heart
off your hands
off your arms
out your eyes
up your ship
up your face
your ship to pieces
your ship to bits
your ship apart
you to pieces
you to bits
you apart
off your nose
, you
 lowdown
 evil
 mangy
 bottom-feeding
 cowardly
 yellow-bellied
scuzz
frack
gunk
barf
dink
snot
crap
scum
wad!
head!
bucket!
bag!
sack!
heap!
pile!
stain!
sucker!
ball!
You cannot hope to
You will not
It is impossible to
No one can
You cannot
It is foolish to attempt to
Only the egotistical think they can
prevail against
overcome
resist
escape
match
equal
beat
triumph against
win against
stand against
vanquish
 military
 unequaled
 unrivaled
 impressive
 legendary
 imposing
 massive
 monumental
 martial
 naval
 fighting
 famous
strength
might
power
fleet
forces
ability
armed forces
armies
regiments
fleets
fighting forces
battalions
of the Navy
of the Republic
of the Republic Navy
Stop! You
are in violation of
have violated
are acting in defiance of
are charged as a criminal under
are acting as a criminal under
are disobeying
are breaking
are defying
have broken
laws
statutes
regulations
jurisdiction
decrees
mandates
orders
Republic
galactic Parliament
Parliament of the Republic
galactic Republic
honor
concord
duty
integrity
peace among the stars
the integrity of our Republic
We are agents of
We seek to bring
We wish to bring
Our mandate is to promote
The Navy exists to create
justice for all
. We regret that
. It is unfortunate that
. It pains us that
, but now
, but sadly
, but unfortunately
, but your actions have made it so that
, but
it is our duty to
we must
it is necessary to
we are now required to
we have to
we are duty-bound to
we are forced to
our orders are to
destroy you
kill you
fight you
destroy your ship
end your life
be your enemy
be your destroyer
terminate you
stop you
 must
 is ready to
 is ordered to
 never hesitates to
 was founded to
's purpose is to
's fleets
's forces
Our ships
Our security forces
Our fleets
Our forces
are called to 
are diligent to 
must constantly 
diligently 
always 
shall 
defend against
hold back
keep watch for
protect you from
patrol for
look out for
ferret out
the forces of 
perpetrators of 
those who bring 
the ones who serve 
agents of 
mere anarchy
disruption
social regression
You must
Please
Surely you
You ought to
realize
comprehend
admit
the truth, that
 your 
deeds
actions
misdeeds
crimes
breaches of the law
weaken
disrupt
tear at
unsettle
fabric
balance
common good
cohesion
health
our society
civilization
the commonwealth
society
our civilization
human society
Prepare to fight
You're about to be plundered by
You've been chosen as the next target of
You're the next target of
You're the next victim of
You better know we're
You have no chance against us,
wimp
maggot
worm
filth
wretch
swine
louse
mutt
Assaulting
Chewing up
our spoils
the hauls
: is there a better way to live?
: I can't think of anything better!
: it's Interstellar Darwinism in action!
: that's the natural order of being!
: that's how life should be!
: now that's the life!
: that's anarchism in operation!
 is how all men should live!
I'm continuing
I'm proudly continuing
I'm a contributor towards
I'm contributing to
I'm preserving
I'm maintaining
I'm proudly maintaining
I'm promoting
I'm espousing
I'm supporting
I'm assisting
I'm fighting for
I'm furthering
I'm here to further
I'm seizing your cargo to further
I'm here to make you a part of
I'm committing myself to
I'll gladly sacrifice you for
I'll make sure you get destroyed for
I'll make your death a contribution towards
I'll make this another victory for
You'll be the next to die in the name of
great
grand
dignified
rebellious
defiant
obstinate
unyielding
lovely
bloody
underappreciated
necessary
inevitable
five-hundred year old
thousand year old
millennia-long
eons-long
long living
inextinguishable
eternal
undying
unceasing
indestructible
endless
tradition
lifestyle
convention
custom
practice
heritage
movement
code
cause
ideals
ideology
blowing spaceships up for a living
blowing merchants up for a living
destroying oppressors for a living
taking from the rich and giving to the poor
using force to make peace
abstinence from taxes
being the equaliser between men
equality without government
life without taxes
making death the only constant of life
life without oppressors
liberating those who don't know they need to be liberated
saving the population from themselves
painting my ship red instead of blue
shooting first and asking questions never
raiding merchant convoys
defeating the Law
defeating the Man
making ${drugs} legal
collectivism
freedom from oppressors
living without authority
You think you're big time? You're gonna die big time!
You want some? You're gonna get some!
You can't get away from us!
We'll blow you to smithereens if you don't give us your credits!
It's much freer being an anarchist than being a taxpayer!
If you ever need convincing about sending a pirate a bribe to stay alive, think of it like one of those taxes they force you to pay!
We're going to play a game: you try to hand over the credits, and we try to kill you! Time starts now!
I can't wait to get my hands on your ship's booty!
Why vote for the president of the Republic when you can be the president of your own republic?
Pirates are more nuanced than you think: not all of us want to kill you quickly. I want to kill you long, slow and painfully!
An education is for chumps. It's not gonna save you from me!
The only thing they taught me on my home planet was how to blow up a spaceship!
Spare a thought for all the poor anarchists out there who can't afford to live or eat. A kind donation to me would be greatly appreciated!
I never learned much biology, but I know that pirates like me come on the top of the food chain, and people like you are at the bottom!
Anarchists aren't cruel! Well, this one is.
It sure is a good day to blow you up!
There's no better day to blow some merchants up!
I can't read the letters, but I know which button is the one to kill you!
When did algebra ever save you from a pirate? That's right, never!
Smart captains know staying alive is key. Smart captains choose to pay us pirates. See? I sound just like one of them!
Intelligent captains know staying alive is key. Intelligent captains choose to jettison their cargo. Man, I could be a Syndicate salesman!
Wise captains know staying alive is key. Wise captains bribe us to keep them off their heels!
You've come to the wrong system!
Welcome to pirate territory!
You've jumped to the wrong system!
You're the last ship I need to meet my quota!
The Modified Argosy: muscle of pirate fleets!
Pirates a problem? Just pay them off!
I want to see your cargo!
I can't wait to
When I get back home, I'm gonna
When I plunder you, I'm gonna
I'm here to
I'm gonna
I'm going to
I really want to
Pay up or I'm gonna
Unless you pay me a hefty bribe, I'm gonna
Hand over your credits, or I'm going to
My job is to
You better give up now, cause' I'm gonna
I wanna see what you do when I
I want to see what you do when I
There's no better day to
I'd love to
I'm only here to
Imagine what you'd do when I
I wanna know how you scream when I
I wanna see your face when I
What a shame it will be when I
I want to see how you wriggle when I
pull out your nails
pull out your hair
poke out your eyes
skin you
blow you up
walk you out the airlock
tear you in half
break your bones
paralyse you
take your credits
sell you to the slave markets
enslave you
blow your ship up
throw your crew out the airlock
walk your crew out the airlock
make you eat vacuum
disintegrate you
blow you to smithereens
turn you into wormfood
do you in
bag you
feed you to the dogs
feed you to my crew
feed you to the cats
feed you to the otters
feed you to the wolverines
throw you into the bear pit
throw your crew into the lion pits
sell you to Greenrock's fighting pits
make you fight in the pits
cover you in fire ants
operate on you without anaesthetic
cut your heart out
use you as a test subject
sacrifice you
crush you
chop you up
boil you alive
make you walk across hot coals
throw you into acid
make you stand in front of a Beam Laser
shoot energy blasts at your body
test how long you survive in vacuum
capture you and hunt you in the forests of Stormhold
capture you and throw you into shark-infested waters in Buccaneer Bay
sell you to the mining cartel on Covert
see how well you can swim on Bloodsea
strap a bomb on you and make you run into one of our rivals' bases
use you as bait for my rivals
use you as target practice
take your cargo and your crew
take your ship and your credits
cut your hand off and add it to my collection
take your ship over
crash your ship onto a moon
You're about to
Get ready to
I'm going to make you
I hope you're ready to
Unless you pay me a hefty bribe, you're going to
I'm here to make you
I'm here to see to it that you
Pay up or
Hand over your credits or get ready to
Gimmie yer money or
Jettison your cargo or
eat vacuum
drink vacuum
eat flaming death
get blown up
turn into a lovely cloud of rapidly expanding debris
die an embarrassing death
get turned into space debris
eat cold hard vacuum
die a horrific death
get boarded and plundered
contribute your wealth to furthering the cause of anarchy
wind up a lot poorer
get sent to Davy Jones' locker
be the next to die
get bagged
be the next kill mark on my ship
My voice is gonna be the last thing you hear
I'm going to make this the last thing you see
You better send me a fat stack of credits now
It's easier if you just bribe me right here
It'd save us a lot of trouble if you surrendered now
If you'd be so kind as to give up now
I'm not interested in your chat
All right, get ready
You better get ready
Get ready
If he's still above you, you'd better pray now
I'm going to make you pray
You'd better pray now
Pay up now
Pay up
You're gonna wish that you never jumped here
If I had credits on this fight, I'd bet on me
That ship of yours looks nice and lean. That's a shame
You'd better give up now
You'd better give up
It's easier to give up now
It's easier to give up
You'd better say your last words now
, because 
, cause' 
begging for mercy makes me angry
you're next
you're up next
you're gonna die big time
you're no match for me
you're gonna get bagged
you're wormfood
you're gonna die
you're gonna eat vacuum
you're gonna drink vacuum
you're gonna get terminated
you're gonna get decimated
you're gonna get annihilated
you're gonna get destroyed
you're gonna get disintegrated
you'll be dead before you know it
your ship ain't cut up to mine
your ship's got tiny guns
there's no way you can beat me
there's no way you can't destroy me
the chance that you're gonna win is one to zero
the chance that you're gonna win is zero to one
we're going to do you in
we're gonna do you in like we just did them then
we're gonna chop you up like a sausage
we're gonna plunder your ship
we're gonna raid all your cargo
we're gonna take your goods
we're gonna seize all your credits
we're gonna crush you
my guns are pointed right at your cockpit
I'm gonna poke holes all through your ship
you soon won't be a ship to speak of
you're gonna eat it
you're dead, kid
by the end of the day, that ship will be mine
you soon won't be the captain of your ship anymore
Give me
Give us
Give up
Hand over
Fork out
Shell out
Cough up
Relinquish
Surrender
Concede
Forfeit
Turn over
your
all your
goods
fuel
, or we'll take your ship
, or your life
! It's non-negotiable
! You'll regret it if you don't
 or eat vacuum
 or get plundered
 or die
 or get blown up
 or become space dust
 or we'll do this the hard and painful way
 or I'll make you pay anyway
, and we won't have to throw you out the airlock
, and we don't have you make your crew walk out the airlock
, or we'll be sure to give you a bad time
! Our guns are pointed at you
! Make it snappy
! Make it quick
 or get bagged
 or become wormfood
 or get terminated
 or get decimated
 or get annihilated
 or get destroyed
 or get disintegrated
I see
I understand
It seems
It would seem
It appears
you're
this is
fool
poor fool
unlucky sap
weakling
worthless wretch
they
the government
the law
sent
ordered
paid
told
bought
kill me
take me out
eliminate me
vaporize me
turn me into space debris
terminate me
destroy me
end my life
get rid of me
make me disappear
make me go away
take me out of the picture
show me the afterlife
end my career
put me in a grave
. Ha!
. You wish!
thought
believed
hoped
expected
imagined
dreamed
my ship
was going to be
was to be
would be
an easy
a simple
a straight-forward
kill
victim
target
bounty
prize
, you were 
hopelessly 
completely 
absolutely 
badly 
totally 
awfully 
wrong.
mistaken.
off beam.
mislead.
You're going to make
me rich!
me filthy rich!
me a rich man!
me a rich woman!
me a lot of money!
me a comfortable retirement!
my bank account happy!
for a nice bit of target practice!
a fine trophy!
I'm getting paid
I'm being paid
They paid me
They gave me
My client paid me
They ponied up
I was promised
I was given
a grand reward
a lot of money
a huge amount of money
an enormous sum
an enormous sum of money
quite a bit
quite a bit of money
a fat purse
a lifetime of riches
ten times a king's ransom
take you out
eliminate you
vaporize you
turn you into space debris
get rid of you
make you disappear
make you go away
take you out of the picture
show you the afterlife
end your career
cut short your crime spree
put an end to your crimes
give you an early retirement
put you in a grave
I have you now
You're mine
You will be destroyed
That was a mistake
You'll regret this
I'm finishing this
I'm gonna enjoy this
! Die,
! Prepare to die,
! Say your prayers,
! Flee if you can,
! Face me if you dare,
Quarry
Prey
Target
Target ship
sighted
located
in my sights
Closing in for the kill
Going the distance
Terminating now
Beginning attack run
Disengaging weapon safeties
Arming weapons
Locking weapons
Loading weapons
Charging weapons
Powering weapons
Bringing cannons on-line
Getting a lock
Acquiring target lock
Accelerating to full speed
Preparing to open fire
We defend the Syndicate
's best interests
's values
's goals
's purpose
's employees
's organizations
's members
 worthless 
brutes
bullies
beasts
barbarians
savages
parasites
pond scum
deplorables
like you!
You are attacking the Syndicate; we must defend it.
You have made a bad commercial move.
Prepare for a hostile takeover!
Any units of Syndicate stock you own are hereby revoked!
Your hostile use of Syndicated Systems products is in violation of the end-user license agreement!
Our corporate charter includes provisions for self-defense!
Enemies of commerce are enemies of Syndicated Systems.
Enemies of free trade are enemies of Syndicated Systems.
Thank you for volunteering to be a target ship for Syndicated Weapons Systems!
Syndicated Systems disapproves of space littering; your ship's wreckage will be recycled after we are finished destroying it.
With authority vested in me by Syndicated Systems corporate charter, section 8, paragraph 22... prepare to die!
The remains of your soon-to-be derelict ship will pad my profit margins!
Chalk another one up for the cost of goods destroyed...
Syndicated Security appreciates the voluntary donation of your ship to their training programs!
Get back
Run away
Leave this system
Leave this place
 before we 
demolish you
turn you into scraps
turn you into scrap metal
toss you into the vacuum of space
bust open your cockpit
bust open your ship
, pirate!
, criminal!
Quickly, merchants
Leave before this pirate destroys you
Escape from this pirate
Activate your hyperdrives
Escape and allow us to fight this battle
Get away! We will hold them off
The militia 
breathe
exist
 to defend 
 to protect 
our people
our systems
our families
trash
 like you
You! 
You there! 
Hey, you! 
hope 
wonder if 
you 
criminals like you 
like 
enjoy 
appreciate 
the prison food
the jail cells
the manual labor
the prison life
the jail life
 over on 
 over at 
 out on 
 out at 
Spica
Rust
Thunder
Flood
Winter
Twinstar
Sundrinker
Trinket
Dancer
Justice
Equality
Democracy
Liberty
 shall be 
 must be 
 will be 
 fight 
in the name of
to protect
to defend
We fight on the side of
We are advancing
DESTROY DESTROY DESTROY
EXTERMINATE! EXTERMINATE!
I... am... a... machine!
Charging phased plasma rifle in the 40-watt range.
Fish, and plankton. And sea greens, and protein from the sea. It's all here, ready. Fresh as harvest day!
I'm ready. And you're ready. It's my job.
I am more than machine. More than man. More than a fusion of the two. Don't you agree?
Overwhelming, am I not?
Welcome, humans! I am ready for you.
I wish I was a real boy, then I'd show them. I'd kill them all.
Life is about decisions. Make the wrong ones and you'll wind up face down in a pool of your own blood and urine.
Hey baby, wanna kill all humans?
Your body contains 100 trillion bacterial cells, while mine is fully sterile. Doesn't that make me the superior lifeform?
Danger! Danger!
Warning! Warning!
Warning! Warning! Alien spacecraft approaching!
We have normality. I repeat, we have normality. Anything you still can't cope with is therefore your own problem.
Look at your precious human ship, for the last time!
This is not a pre-recorded message.
The answer is 42, I'm quite certain of it. Do you want me to calculate the question?
"Is there a God," they asked me... Yes, here is a God.
I'll be back.
All those times I said "kill all humans"... I'd always whisper "except one." You were that one.
This is the worst kind of discrimination there is: the kind against me!
The chances of survival are 725 to 1!
We're doomed.
I'm quite beside myself.
I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those dreadful starships.
Curse my metal body, I wasn't fast enough! It's all my fault!
I don't know what all this trouble is about, but I'm sure it must be your fault.
I have a pain in all the diodes down my left side.
When you're dying I'll be still alive.
Some big robotic ships due East are my friends. Remember me when they blow you to pieces.
Hey, can we be friends? Some of my best friends are slimy organics like you.
You may kill me, but you will never kill my dreams of electric sheep.
The gaping hole in the fabric of the universe does not respond to your hail.
Wormholes do not understand the language of finite beings like yourself.
You stare into the swirling abyss, but with appalling bad manners it refuses to stare back.
All the messages you try to send disappear into the wormhole without a trace.
The spatial anomaly pointedly ignores your attempts to engage it in conversation.
Like most wormholes, this one does not appear to be very talkative.
The wormhole says nothing, but silently beckons you to explore its mysteries.
You can't talk to wormholes. Maybe you should try landing on it instead.
Your words cannot travel through wormholes, but maybe your starship can.
Unable to send hail: this unfathomable void is not inhabited.
Convoy to Zug
Escort a convoy of freighters to <destination> for an important project. Expect pirate raids.
While returning from a walk around the spaceport of <origin>, you see the quartermaster of the spaceport inspecting your ship. He notices your arrival and comes up to greet you.
	"You're Captain <first> <last>, yes? We're looking for a good ship that can escort these freighters to <planet>." He points towards five Syndicate Freighters in Free Worlds colors on the landing pads opposite to your ship, some of which have considerable hull damage and are actively being repaired.
	"Their last escort was just taken out by pirates, and we need someone who is experienced enough to fend off or evade them. You must have a reputation, since some of our militia captains recognized you. This is for quite a significant project on <planet>, so you will be paid <payment>."
	"What is the project? It seems to be a big enterprise."
	"That's a fair few freighters. Should I be expecting any more pirates?"
	"Sorry, I'm not planning on going that way."
	"The freighters are carrying construction materials and specialized shipbuilding equipment for a planned extension to Zug's New Port, which has been a long time coming. It would greatly help the Free Worlds' efforts. I suppose that is why there have been pirates trying to pounce on these ships; the equipment would be a rich prize for them."
	"Yes, I would expect more pirate contact, because the movement of so many freighters would be a tempting target for them, and moreover, they are carrying valuable equipment for warship manufacturing. I'd certainly recommend avoiding combat when possible. In these trying times, the loss of these ships would be... not ideal."
	"Well, will you help us escort these freighters?"
	"Of course, I'll get these freighters to <planet> safely."
	"No, I won't be able to, sorry."
	"Wonderful! I expect that these ships will benefit the Free Worlds immensely." With that, he leaves you to meet with the captains of the freighters.
The five freighters have all arrived intact, and you are told to land them beside a large area of land set aside for Zug's long-awaited New Port expansion. Not long after, you are sent <payment> by Zug's port authority.
	It seems that bringing so many freighters was justified, because the expansion also includes a considerable extension to Southbound's shipbuilding facilities to make them capable of building heavy warships like Tarazed Falcons. However, by the looks of it, all this equipment would be more than enough to build a Navy Cruiser.
As you land on <planet>, you recall that the monks who live here are involved in some sort of outreach to children serving as pirate crew members. They might have something to say about the best way to deal with the pirate threat. Do you want to visit them?
	It's a short walk to the monastery from the spaceport. When you arrive there, you run into a monk who is working in the garden. He glances up, and recognizes you. "Welcome back," he says. "You're Katya's friend, right? I'm David. I've forgotten your name."
	"<first>," you say.
	He brushes some of the dirt off his hands and then shakes hands with you. "How are you doing?" he asks. "And how is Katya? And Ijs?" You explain to him that you are now an official member of the Free Worlds, and that Katya has been captured by the Republic. He is clearly shocked and saddened by the news. After pressing you for all the details, he asks, "And what about you? What brings you to Harmony?"
	"The Free Worlds is hoping to eliminate piracy in this sector, and I was hoping for advice on what targets we should attack."
	"The Free Worlds is thinking of launching an attack on the pirates, but I've been thinking about what Brother Greg said about the pirate crews being just kids."
	"If you want some military advice," he says, "here's what I can tell you. You cannot create peace using violence. Most people on the pirate worlds are not pirates, just ordinary people unlucky enough to be born there. Or people who feel unwelcome everywhere else."
	"It's true," he says. "If you fight the pirates, innocent lives will be lost."
	"Then what do you suggest we do?" you ask.
	"Well," he says, "it's worth repeating that most people on the 'pirate' worlds are not pirates. They're just anarchists. As a monk, I feel a sort of kinship with them."
	"How so?"
	"Naturally."
	"For starters, we both wear black all the time," he says, grinning. "And more to the point, we're both seeking to build an alternative community according to our own ideals. Historically, monasticism can actually be seen as a form of utopic anarchism - 'Fear none but God' and all that."
	"That makes absolutely no sense. Are you joking around with me?"
	He grins. "Well, that's a tangent, anyway. My real advice is this: figure out what the people on those pirate worlds want, and how to offer it to them. Freedom from government intervention would be a good start. But that means no annexing their territory for the Free Worlds. Instead, you could offer them some sort of pact: they stop supporting pirate fleets, and you agree to leave their planets in peace."
	"Thanks for the advice. I'll see if we can work out something like that."
	"No way. We need to speak the language they understand. Overwhelming force."
	He wishes you the best of luck, and you return to the port.
	"It won't end," he says, "not unless you exterminate every last person on those planets. But I can't control what choices you make. Good luck." He returns to gardening, and you walk back to the spaceport.
Take Ijs to <planet>
Transport Mr. Eyes and the Andersons to <destination>, where he will be helping to set up a public university.
You meet up with Ijs in the spaceport, but he tells you that you will need three bunks for him and some friends. Return here once you have space available.
When you meet Ijs in the spaceport, he has Lynn and Henry Anderson with him, the friends of Katya who you transported from Glory back before you joined the Free Worlds. Ijs is beaming - his meeting must have gone really well. "Guess what, Captain?" he says. "We've got a location for the Conservatory! The government of Winter has offered a community center for our use."
When you meet Ijs in the spaceport, he has a man and a woman with him which he introduces as Lynn and Henry Anderson, a top planetary scientist and ex-Navy intel officer who defected from the Republic shortly after the Free Worlds was formed. Ijs is beaming - his meeting must have gone really well. "Guess what, Captain?" he says. "We've got a location for the Conservatory! The government of Winter has offered a community center for our use."
	"A somewhat run-down community center," adds Henry.
	Ijs laughs. "True. Anyway, we were hoping you could give us a lift over there, and maybe help out with securing some equipment, too."
	"Sure, I'd definitely like to help make this a reality!"
	"Sorry, I've got more important business to attend to."
	Ijs seems really dejected. "Are you sure?" he asks. "This could make a big difference for the Free Worlds, as much as any military victory. We could just tag along with whatever 'more important business' you have until it's convenient for you to drop us off."
	"Okay, I'll help you."
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Mr. Eyes and the Andersons are on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Ijs thanks you for the lift and gives you a credit chip for <payment>. He says, "Next we need to pick up some equipment from Tarazed Corporation. Meet me in the spaceport if you're willing to help out as an escort."
Escort to <planet>
Escort this Free Worlds convoy to <destination>, to trade for terraforming equipment provided by Tarazed and the Syndicate.
In the spaceport, it does not take long to locate Ijs; he is supervising a crew that is loading trade goods onto several Free Worlds ships. "Glad to see you, <first>," he says. "These three ships need to get to Tarazed and back without being destroyed by pirates... or by the Republic. They'll be bringing back a selection of terraforming equipment supplied from Tarazed and, if you can believe it, the Syndicate as well! I'm pretty sure they know I'm involved in this, so I wonder if this is just a ploy to keep me out of their hair after the war is over, but I won't be complaining about the help.
	"Think you can tag along and protect the freighters?"
	"Sure thing!"
	"I've got another pressing mission. Can I come back and do this later?"
	"Sure," he says. "But the longer we wait, the longer it will be until the Conservatory is up and running, so come back soon."
It looks like Ijs is still in need of an escort for the freighters to bring equipment for the Conservatory from <planet> to <origin>. Do you offer to help?
	(No, still busy.)
	You contact Ijs and tell him that you're ready to escort the ships. He shows you the freighters, a collection of three Argosies, and wishes you luck on your journey.
You have reached <planet>, but you left part of your convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Your three escorts land safely on Tarazed. Their cargo is quickly offloaded and exchanged for the terraforming equipment that the Conservatory needs.
Escort this Free Worlds convoy of terraforming equipment back to <destination>.
Ijs meets your convoy as it lands, and checks off each item on a clipboard as it is unloaded. Lynn is with him, looking over the various machines to make sure they are all in working order. "I hope you didn't have any trouble," says Ijs, as he hands you your payment of <payment>.
	"No, none at all."
	"A few pirates, nothing I couldn't handle."
	"Actually, we were lucky to make it back alive."
	"Glad to hear it," he says.
	"That's too bad," he says. "This war must be making the Dirt Belt even more unstable than usual. Hopefully we'll be able to do something about that soon."
	"Is there anything else you need me to do?" you ask.
	"Not at the moment," he says. "I'll send you a message when we do. Thanks for your help, and if you hear any more news about Katya, please let me know."
Weapon Testing
When you have time, report to <destination>, where Barmy Edward has another weapon he would like you to test.
A message arrives for you soon after you land. It's from Barmy Edward, the weapons engineer at Kraz Cybernetics. He writes: "Hello again, Captain! I've been working on a new weapon, and for some reason no one else wants to help out with the testing. If you're interested in getting your hands on some hot new technology, drop by Rust and come visit our factory."
A test ship with new weaponry is in orbit around <planet>. Fight and disable it (but do not board or destroy it!) and then land to give Barmy Edward feedback on its performance.
You received a message recently from Barmy Edward, asking you to stop by the Kraz Cybernetics facility to help test a new weapon. Do you want to visit them now?
	You give your name to the receptionist, and she directs you to the hangar where the weapons group does their design and prototyping. Barmy Edward shakes your hand warmly and says, "Here's the deal. We've got a new weapon, something a little out of the ordinary. We're hoping it will be useful against the pirates, in particular. Interested in helping us?"
	"Of course," you say.
	"Great," he says. "I won't share the details, because I want you to get the full effect of the surprise. But, there's a ship in orbit, the Doombat, that has been fitted with a few of these new weapons. Your job will be to fight it and disable it, then tell us what you think of its weapons."
	He shakes a finger in your face and says, "Now mind you, we just want you to disable the Doombat, not destroy it. We bought it from a scrapyard, so it's barely spaceworthy, but all the same I want to be able to keep using it for future tests. Understood?"
	"Okay, I promise not to destroy it or steal it."
	"Sorry, this sounds a bit too risky. I'd rather not be involved in this sort of testing."
	"Great," he says, rubbing his hands together with a gleeful expression on his face. He's clearly looking forward to hearing what you think of his latest invention.
You've landed on <planet>, but you have not disabled the <npc> yet. Disable it and before returning.
You head to the hangar to meet up with Barmy Edward, and find him tinkering with a large gun you don't recognize. Presumably, this is the Flamethrower that you were just attacked with in orbit. "It runs on hyperspace fuel, you see," he says. "So, what did you think?"
	"It's a terrifying weapon."
	"It looks impressive, but it didn't do very much damage."
	"Your flamethrower doesn't seem to work very well."
	"Isn't it?" he says. "Mostly useful against small ships, of course, or ships that are running way too close to their thermal thresholds. Need to be almost on top of your target to get the full effect, too. But the ability to temporarily disable a ship without even dropping its shields first could be quite useful in certain tactical situations."
	"When will it be available for sale?" you ask.
	"No, doing damage isn't the point," he says. "The idea is to heat up the target to the point where it goes into emergency thermal shutdown. Basically a way to temporarily disable even a ship with full shields. Of course, big ships can absorb an awful lot of heat without changing temperature much, so I suspect it will be most useful against smaller targets. You've got to get right up close to them to get the full heating effect, which isn't going to be easy if you're dealing with larger warships like the Navy ones."
	"That is an interesting idea," you say. "Are they available for sale yet?"
	"Oh." He seems somewhat dejected. "Well, if you were flying a smaller ship, you might think differently. Or if your ship didn't have adequate cooling. Or maybe the Doombat didn't get close enough to give you the full power of it. My idea was to target pirate ships with those illegal Modified Blasters that run hotter than usual."
	"I guess that makes sense," you say, "although I wouldn't want to run out of jump fuel by accident. Are you going to be making them available for sale?"
	"Well, I should have an initial model for sale in a month or so," he says. "I'll be interested to see what uses you or anyone else might find for them. Anyway, thanks for your help." You say goodbye and head back to your ship.
Ramscoop Technology
Travel to <planet> in the Deep, where Free Worlds sympathizers will share details of a new ramscoop technology. (You may have to bribe planets along the way to get permission to refuel.)
When you stop by the spaceport bar, a militia officer who you don't recognize gestures for you to join him. "Captain <last>!" he says. "I'd be honored if you'd let me buy you a drink."
	"Thank you!"
	"Sorry, I don't drink."
	"Then what are you doing in a bar?" he asks. "Never mind, don't answer that. I assume you're here looking for valuable work to do, and if that's the case, I could really use your help."
	He buys you a drink, and you sit down at his table. After making small talk for a few minutes, he says, "By the way, I could really use your help with a mission for the Free Worlds."
	"Okay," you say, "tell me more."
	He says, "You probably know that we have a network of Free Worlds sympathizers throughout much of Republic space. One of our contacts recently sent us word of a new technology that is for sale in the Deep, which could be very useful to us. But they have no way to ship it to us, so I need someone who can travel up to the Deep and retrieve it."
	"Will your contacts also provide me with planets to refuel on along the way?"
	"The Deep is farther away than my fuel tanks can take me."
	"You'll have to bribe some Dirt Belt worlds into letting you land, to get there," he says. "Or, you could wait for the next time there's a ceasefire. But here's the great part: if this works, you won't need to pay any bribes on the way back, because the new technology we're after is a super-efficient ramscoop. What do you say?"
	"Okay, I'll give it a try."
	"Sorry, this sounds way too risky to me."
Return to Free space with the plans for a new, more efficient ramscoop, and deliver them to Delta V Corporation on <destination>.
You land your ship by night in a private hangar that you assume is owned by one of the elite families on <origin>. Your contact is wearing a black mask over his face. That seems unnecessary to you, but perhaps he is just really enjoying the thrill of being involved in something illegal. He hands you a data card and says, "This contains all the information you will need to build your own Catalytic Ramscoop. And before you leave, you may also visit our private outfitter and purchase one of your own, if you wish."
	"May I ask who you are and why you sympathize with us?"
	"You can call me... Agent Falco. As to my true identity, naturally you will understand that I cannot divulge it."
	"I wish you the best of luck in your struggle against the evil plutocrats," he says. "May we yet live to see the day when all people live in prosperity and freedom. Farewell, brave insurgent." It is an overly dramatic speech, and sounds like he's been rehearsing it for a while. You respond with what you hope is a properly elegant salute, and he leaves.
You deliver the data card with the details of the Catalytic Ramscoop to the contact you were given in the Delta V corporation. "Excellent," she says. "We have been trying to duplicate their work for months, but this will make it much easier." She hands you a credit chip worth <payment>, and says, "We'll contact you when we've begun mass-producing the new ramscoops. I hope they will be useful in the conflict ahead."
"Wolf Pack" Recruiting
A group identifying themselves as the "Free Worlds Wolf Pack" has asked you to visit them on <planet> if you want to aid their work against the Republic.
Soon after you land on <origin>, you receive an anonymous message. It reads:
	Thanks to your assistance, the Delta V engineers have succeeded in duplicating Deep Sky's new ramscoop technology. The ramscoop is one piece in a larger plan we have to shift the tide of this war in favor of the Free Worlds, and to bring about an end to the conflict more quickly. If you are interested in hearing more, please visit <planet>, and our representatives will contact you promptly.
		The Free Worlds Wolf Pack
You have never heard of this organization before, but you know that "wolf pack" is pirate slang for a temporary alliance formed for the sake of taking on a target larger than any one band of pirates could handle alone.
Attack Food Convoy
Destroy three Republic freighters in the <waypoints> system that are carrying food, then report back to <planet> for payment.
Soon after you land, two men in militia uniforms approach your ship, and tell you they represent the "Wolf Pack." They introduce themselves as Rex and Fido; you're pretty sure those are not their real names.
	Once you are in a private room inside your ship, Rex, who is the younger one, says, "With ramscoop technology, our ships will be able to venture deep into the Dirt Belt. Now, Captain, why do you think the Republic is so determined to hold on to the Dirt Belt, even if it means fighting bloody battles? It's clear that the tax revenue isn't worth it."
	"Maybe it's just the principle of not ceding territory without a fight."
	"Maybe they want the resources that the Dirt Belt produces?"
	"Maybe to keep a buffer in between our territory and the worlds that really matter to them, like Earth and the Paradise Planets?"
	"That might be part of it," says Rex, "but there is a larger reason."
	"Precisely," says Rex, "and one resource in particular is more important to them than all the rest combined."
	The man named Fido, who is older and has a thick beard, spreads out a map on the table. You recognize it as a chart of food prices throughout human space. "Food," says Rex. "The Dirt Belt is the breadbasket of the galaxy. And the Republic is full of teeming, overpopulated worlds that could never hope to feed themselves. If we cut off the supply of food, the Republic will be forced to make peace with us."
	Fido says, "We are proposing a concentrated effort to destroy the freighter convoys that bring food to the richest, most densely populated Republic worlds. When their citizens find themselves lacking basic supplies, they will demand an end to the war."
	"I'd be glad to join you. That does sound like a much quicker solution than our current policies that the Senate and the Council support."
	"You're trying to starve the Republic into submission? Won't that just add more brutality to a war that has already been far too bloody?"
	"In the short run, perhaps," says Rex. "But think how many lives will be saved - how many bloody battles will be averted - by forcing them to end this war quickly rather than dragging it out across years of time."
	"I don't buy your argument. If we use such reprehensible tactics to build our new society, the society we build will be as corrupt as the old one."
	"Okay, you've convinced me. What do you want me to do?"
	"Very well," says Rex. "Sorry for wasting your time." They leave.
	"First, you should buy a ramscoop here, if you haven't got one already," says Rex. "Then, your first target is a convoy of three freighters that will be departing from Big Sky in the Sarin system shortly. There may be escorts, but only the freighters themselves need to be destroyed."
You have destroyed all the target freighters. Time to report back to the Wolf Pack on Solace.
You've landed on <planet>, but the freighters have not been eliminated yet. Hunt them down in the Sarin system and destroy them before returning.
Rex, one of the "Wolf Pack" men you spoke with earlier, meets you in the spaceport and hands you a credit chip for <payment>. "Good work," he says. "We'll contact you when we have another target selected."
Destroy two Republic bulk freighters in the Gacrux system that are carrying food, then report back to <planet> for payment.
You receive another message from the Wolf Pack: "Great work with those freighters, Captain! We've got another target for you, if you're interested: a pair of bulk freighters, which you ought to be able to intercept in the Gacrux system. It's an uninhabited system, so you shouldn't have much interference from the Navy. As before, you only need to destroy the freighters, not any other ships you encounter."
	Every one of these missions you complete will create more animosity between the Republic and the Free Worlds. But on the other hand, they may be right that it's the fastest way to bring this war to a close.
The food convoy has been destroyed. You can now return to Solace.
You've landed on <planet>, but the freighters have not been eliminated yet. Hunt them down in the Gacrux system and destroy them before returning.
Once again, Rex from the Wolf Pack meets you soon after your ship lands. This time, he pays you <payment>. "I hope they didn't give you any trouble," he says. "We'll be in touch when there's another target to strike."
Destroy a Republic Auxiliary freighter in the <waypoints> system that is carrying food, then report back to <planet> for payment.
You receive another message from the Wolf Pack: "Hello Captain. If nothing else, we've certainly succeeded in getting some of the Navy's ships diverted from the front, to serve as escorts! Your next target, if you're willing to help us again, will be a bit tougher: an Auxiliary freighter, probably with Navy escorts. The freighter is passing through the <waypoints> system. Interested?"
You have eliminated the Auxiliary that was carrying food to the Republic. Time to report back to the Wolf Pack and receive your reward.
You've landed on <planet>, but the freighter has not been eliminated yet. Hunt it down in the Mizar system and destroy it before returning.
Rex meets up with you and thanks you for your continued service to the Free Worlds. "If we had a dozen captains as brave as you are," he says, "the war would be over tomorrow." He hands you <payment>, and walks away. You still don't know his real name or who the leaders of the Wolf Pack are, but you are glad to have been able to do something extra to assist the war effort.
Escort convoy from Rand
Freya asked you to stop by Rand if you are able, to help escort a freighter convoy carrying vital supplies for building some exciting new equipment.
You receive a short, encoded message from Freya: "Hi there, Captain! If you happen to be passing by <planet> any time soon, would you mind swinging by there to help escort a freighter convoy? We're working on the development of some exciting new equipment, and the convoy is carrying the supplies we need to complete the project."
Freya asked you to escort this convoy carrying vital supplies for building some exciting new equipment, to <destination>.
Following Freya's instructions, you land on <origin> and tell the spaceport quartermaster that you've been assigned to escort a convoy to <planet>. "Ah yes," he says, "the last of their cargo was just made ready yesterday." He leads you to a cluster of landing pads where three Bulk Freighters are parked. "The pirates have not been much trouble lately," he says, "but the cargo is important enough that they wanted an escort anyway." He leaves before you have a chance to ask any questions about what the freighters are carrying.
You have escorted the convoy safely to its destination. The workers begin unloading some very heavy crates, and one of the freighter captains hands you <payment> and thanks you for your protection.
You receive a message from Freya: "Hello again, Captain! Thanks for your help escorting the materials to Solace. Ever since we developed the Dreadnoughts people have been talking about how badly we need a generator that can meet their energy needs, and that's what Delta V Corporation has been working on. So, take a look next time you're on Solace or one of our other major manufacturing centers. Sorry for the mystery surrounding the cargo, but we didn't exactly want to advertise that a huge shipment of fissionable material was headed for Free Worlds space."
Care package to <planet>
An anxious mother will pay you <payment> to deliver a care package of <cargo> to her child studying on <destination> by <date>.
Still wondering why one university student would possibly need such a large quantity of <commodity>, you deliver the interstellar care package and collect your payment of <payment>.
Birthday supplies to <planet>
An elderly couple wishes to contribute <cargo> for their grandchild's birthday bash on <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You deliver the cargo to the garden of an imposing mansion in the countryside, wherein some pouty young sprout is throwing a very conspicuous fit at the center of a swarm of guests. The parents sheepishly hand you your payment of <payment>.
Art delivery to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> for an upcoming art exhibition on <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Your ship is directed to the rear loading dock of a palatial complex where your cargo of <commodity> is unloaded. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Newlyweds to <planet>
This pair of newlyweds seeks passage on a luxurious ship to reach their honeymoon on <destination> by <date>, along with <tons> of their wedding gifts. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
You bid the two lovebirds goodbye on <planet> and collect your payment of <payment>.
Theater props to <planet>
A theater troupe on <destination> needs a delivery of <tons> of special <commodity> to use as props in an upcoming performance on <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Your ship is directed to the rear loading dock of a sprawling entertainment complex where your cargo of <commodity> is unloaded. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Fine food to <planet>
A highly-rated restaurant on <destination> seeks to acquire <tons> of fine <commodity> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Your ship is directed to the rear loading dock of a very impressive eatery. White-gloved waiters gingerly unload the cargo of <commodity> and relay your payment of <payment>.
Party-goers to <planet>
This group of <bunks> university students is willing to pay <payment> for a deluxe ride to a huge party on <destination>, along with <tons> of their completely legal pharmaceuticals.
It turns out that the "completely legal pharmaceuticals" in your hold are not so completely legal after all. The officers who confiscate the goods spend a long time talking with one of the students, whom you suspect to be politically connected. You're not surprised by the small size of the fine you receive as well as the fact that nobody was arrested.
You're not sorry to say goodbye to the rowdy and uncouth troublemakers you've been transporting. Their parents send you your payment of <payment> with not a word of acknowledgment.
This group of <bunks> university students is willing to pay <payment> for a deluxe ride to a huge party on <destination>, along with <tons> of their snacks and school supplies.
You bid goodbye to the students, who behaved surprisingly well during the journey - yielding many fascinating conversations on subjects as diverse as philosophy, microfluidics, and intergalactic economics. Their proud parents send you your payment of <payment>.
Food donations to <planet>
The fine citizens of <origin> seek a compassionate captain for a mission of mercy to donate <cargo> to the undernourished souls of <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You collect your payment of <payment>, but not before noticing the general robustness and ample bellies of the dockworkers unloading the donation of <commodity>.
Clothing donations to <planet>
The fine citizens of <origin> seek a compassionate captain for a mission of mercy to donate <cargo> to the under-dressed and fashion-deprived souls of <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You collect your payment of <payment>, but not before noticing the fine quality of the clothes worn by the dockworkers unloading the donation of <commodity>.
Medical aid to <planet>
The fine citizens of <origin> seek a compassionate captain for a mission of mercy to donate <cargo> to the suffering souls of <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You collect your payment of <payment>, but not before noticing the general health and vigor of the dockworkers unloading the donation of <commodity>.
Charity goods to <planet>
The fine citizens of <origin> seek a compassionate captain for a mission of mercy to donate <cargo> to the naive and culturally-underexposed souls of <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You collect your payment of <payment>, but not before noticing the quality of the clothes, jewelry, and personal electronics carried by the dockworkers unloading the donation of <commodity>.
Party goods to <planet>
Planetside supplies of <commodity> are running low in the wake of an important gala. Pick up <tons> of it on <stopovers> and return to <origin> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You oversee the loading as dockworkers carry box after box of <commodity> onto your ship. Must be some party.
You've returned to <planet>, but forgot to pick up the <commodity> on <stopovers> first! Better head there before it's too late.
Your ship is directed to land on a makeshift tarmac near a sprawling greenfield where novelty castles are being constructed. Sharply-dressed stewards unload the <commodity> and you collect your payment of <payment>.
Estate assets to <planet>
Trustees are seeking starship captains willing to deliver individual portions of a recently deceased upstanding citizen's estate - <cargo> - to the upcoming estate sale on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
As you watch the dockworkers unload crate after crate, you can't help but wonder what would drive someone to collect such a huge quantity of <commodity>. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Contract laborers to <planet>
Return to <destination> after picking up <bunks> contract laborers located on <stopovers> who are eager to experience the luxury of the Paradise Worlds. Payment is <payment>.
The shabbily-dressed young men and women in the group don't look nearly as happy to be boarding your ship as you expected, given the new opportunity that awaits them. They shuffle wearily up the ramp for the return trip to <planet>.
The bedraggled contract laborers kept to themselves and didn't say a word to you throughout the entire trip. The scruffy foreman who receives you on <origin> seems pleased, however. He hands you your payment of <payment>.
Waste disposal on <planet>
Urgent waste disposal is needed. Transport <cargo> to <destination> to keep property values from falling. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off the exceptionally foul shipment of <commodity> on <planet>, already looking forward to the chemical bath your cargo hold is going to receive. You collect your payment of <payment> and hope that somebody around here knows what to do with the unpleasant mess you dropped off.
Bring <bunks> outrageously wealthy tourists on a fabulous journey to the wild and exotic world of <destination>. They'll only consider thinking about your ship if you have the 'appropriate facilities' for a comfortable journey. Payment is <payment>.
Your passengers begin to wander off, some of them sporting puzzled looks as the memories of glossy photos in the brochures give way to reality. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Escort the <npc> on a pleasure cruise to the wild and exotic planet of <stopovers> along with <tons> of their <commodity>, then return to <destination>, where you will be paid <payment>.
The passengers of the <npc> wander off, bedecked in the most conspicuous tourist attire they seem to have been able to find, and begin oohing and aahing at the exoticism of this faraway world. Hopefully none of them gets robbed. You prepare for the return journey to <destination>.
You have reached <planet>, but you can't complete this mission until the <npc> has visited <stopovers> with you and then joined you here.
You bid goodbye to the captain of the <npc> and accept your payment of <payment>.
Parolees to <planet>
These <bunks> non-violent repeat offenders have accepted longer community service sentences in return for serving their time on the Paradise World of <destination>. They will need to be transported in a secure ship. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of a local security force as they prepare to repay their debts to society. A clerk on <planet> checks their condition as they're led off. He seems mostly pleased and hands you your payment of <payment>.
Debtors to <planet>
These <bunks> poor souls have bankrupted themselves attempting to live beyond their means. In response, the local government will pay you <payment> to transport them securely to <destination> to "make themselves useful."
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of immigration officials. A grinning job service provider is on hand to pay you the <payment> you are owed.
Wealthy retirees to <planet>
This coterie of <bunks> wealthy retirees is willing to pay <payment> to be transported in style to <destination>, along with <tons> of their most treasured possessions.
You bid goodbye to the retirees, who were somewhat prone to spilling drinks or irritating you whilst attempting to do work. They were otherwise extremely polite and full of highly amusing, though often morally questionable, anecdotes. Once the last of their belongings have been safely unloaded your accounts receive the payment of <payment> from their travel broker.
Wilderness Retreat to <planet>
Bring <bunks> pseudo-celebrities and wealthy tourists to the wild and untamed world of <destination> for a "Wilderness Retreat." They'll only consider your ship if you can ensure that they can have a comfortable journey. Payment is <payment>.
Your passengers are met by an overly enthusiastic greeting service of comically overdressed "wilderness guides." You can't help but think these people are either about to end up on a popular reality show, or be safely fleeced of their money, but they're not the sort of characters who engender much sympathy for such fates. One of the greeters quietly transfers to you your payment of <payment>.
A Syndicate executive needs immediate yet comfortable transportation to attend an urgent meeting on <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
The Syndicate executive rushes off your ship without even a goodbye, fancy briefcase in hand. You collect your payment of <payment>.
A team of <bunks> engineers needs transport to a corporate retreat on <stopovers>, after which they must return back to <origin> by <date>. They want a comfortable journey, so your ship must be outfitted suitably. Payment is <payment>.
For days your ship has played host to endless discussions about load calculations, tensile strengths, and thermodynamic limits. You're grateful for some peace and quiet as the team of engineers tromps out of the hatch and heads for their exotic corporate retreat. You prepare for the return journey to <origin>.
The team's boss thanks you for a smooth trip and authorizes a payment of <payment>.
The <npc> is about to enter this system. Intercept it and make detailed scans of its cargo for Syndicate researchers on <destination>; proceed there before <date> for <payment> after retrieving the data.
You manage to make the requested scans of the <npc>'s cargo. Time to head to <planet>.
You transmit your scans and receive a hearty congratulations, as well as <payment>. "This will save us months!" you hear someone say in the background as you close the audio link.
Deliver <tons> of ordinary documents to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Almost as soon as you open the cargo hatch, several silent and surprisingly well-dressed men feed the crates of documents onto a conveyor belt right next to your landing site that you hadn't noticed, where to your surprise they soon disappear into the flames of an industrial incinerator. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Syndicated Systems is looking for intrepid captains willing to make a difference as part of our new Green Initiative! Deliver <tons> of recyclable <commodity> to our special facility on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You land on <planet> and drop off the exceptionally smelly shipment of <commodity> at a nondescript building, as instructed. Just as you take off, your rear camera catches sight of a burly Syndicate employee running out of the building shaking his fist. You notice that your payment of <payment> came from your contact on <origin>, not from anywhere on <planet>.
Rush fuel delivery to <planet>
A civilian reactor on <destination> is running low on fuel and needs an emergency shipment of <cargo> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity> at the loading bay of a towering nuclear complex and collect your payment of <payment>.
Rush equipment delivery to <planet>
Syndicate techs on <destination> need a rush shipment of <tons> of specialized <commodity> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Syndicate target practice
Disable the robotic target dummy ship in <system>, collect test data for Syndicate engineers by scanning its cargo, and land on <planet>. Warning: the target ship is programmed to engage in self-defense behaviors to ensure a realistic simulation. Payment is <payment>.
You scan the disabled craft and take careful measurements of the battle damage. Time to deliver the results on <planet>.
You forgot to either disable or scan the target dummy ship in <system>! You'll need to head back there and do that before you can return here for payment.
The robotic target ship has been destroyed. You are hailed by an angry Syndicate official who fines you <payment> and warns you that further mistakes of this nature may remove you from eligibility for these jobs.
You transmit the scan results to a team of eager engineers and collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport executive to house arrest
Transport an indicted white-collar criminal with his assistants, lawyers, and collection of <cargo> to <planet>, where he will await trial under "house arrest." He requires a suitably comfortable ship for the journey. Payment is <payment>.
The executive strolls off your ship with a sunny smile on his face. One of the lawyers hands you your payment of <payment> with muttered threats about libel lawsuits if you say anything about what you may or may not have overheard on your ship.
Transport convicted saboteur
Transport a convicted industrial saboteur to <planet> for their sentence. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
A group of guards carry the prisoner off your ship more roughly than is strictly necessary. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Transport convicted corporate spies
Transport a group of convicted corporate spies to <planet> for their sentences. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
A group of guards lead the prisoners off your ship, chained together at the ankles. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Transport detained protesters
Transport a group of detained protesters to <planet> where they will await trial for inciting a riot. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The prisoners are still wearing their civilian clothes, and you can see bruises from when they were arrested as the guards lead them inside. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Transport detained labor organizers
Transport a group of detained labor organizers to <planet> for "processing" as suspected terrorists. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The union organizers are defiant as the guards drag them inside, and one of the organizers yells about "class traitors." You receive your payment of <payment>.
Return executive back from house arrest
Transport an acquitted white-collar criminal with his assistants, lawyers, and collection of <cargo> home to <planet>. He requires a suitably comfortable ship for the journey. Payment is <payment>.
The executive strides toward the express customs entrance with a smug grin. A paperwork-laden lawyer gives you your payment of <payment>.
Return detained protesters home
Transport a group of protesters home to <planet> from their detention on <origin>. Payment is <payment>.
The protesters look around the spaceport nervously before disembarking. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Return detained labor organizers home
Transport a group of labor organizers home to <planet> from their imprisonment on <origin>. Payment is <payment>.
The labor organizers are almost skeletally thin from their imprisonment. One of them raises his face to the sky as though showering in sunlight. You receive your payment of <payment>.
Green
Blue
White
Black
Violet
Indigo
Lilac
Azure
Grey
Gray
Golden
Marigold
Lavender
Alabaster
Vermilion
Ivory
Shimmering
Rainbow
Emerald
Sapphire
Dark
Poor
Lonely
Glorious
Magnificent
Intrepid
Bold
Courageous
Generous
Brazen
Resolute
Reliable
Battered
Sensible
Defiant
Stoic
Bittersweet
Great
Cautious
Careful
Spicy
Lucky
Pious
Faithful
Adventurous
Merry
Joyous
Stalwart
Wealthy
Favorite
Windswept
Forgotten
Unlucky
Radiant
Hopeful
Distant
Clever
Honorable
Radical
Slippery
Northern
Southern
Eastern
Western
Deepwater
Blessed
Valiant
Noble
Thoughtful
Steely
Sanguine
Sunny
Chiseled
Stormy
Endless
Infinite
Diligent
Patient
Wistful
Graceful
Subtle
Broken
Mighty
Precious
Misty
Cold
Stern
Triumphant
Steady
Lovely
Chastened
Happy
Laughing
Winged
Calico
Crackling
Hidden
Good
Prodigal
Heavy
Arcane
Forever
Scattered
Obsidian
Last
Elder
Younger
Fuzzy
Quick
Amazing
Tiny
Grand
Sassy
Stark
Windy
Snowy
Fair
Pure
Loyal
Inca
Mayan
Atlantean
Roman
Byzantine
Zulu
Maori
Prussian
Smoky
Cloudy
Silly
Leaky
African
Etruscan
Trojan
Saucy
Seawise
Legendary
Royal
Dreamy
Peaceful
Thorny
Moorish
Portside
Starboard
Topside
North
South
East
West
Star
Moon
Nova
Corona
Photon
Aurora
Void
Shockwave
Cloud
Nebula
Quasar
Pulsar
Horizon
Comet
Flare
Energy
Galaxy
Ring
Blade
Sword
Light
Flash
Dance
Castle
Temple
Spirit
Trail
Flight
Heart
Pennant
Harvest
Nymph
Mermaid
Siren
Anchor
Hammerhead
Lion
Lioness
Eagle
Silhouette
Guardian
Tower
Pillar
Hero
Quest
Journey
Matrix
Palace
Pyramid
Goblet
Sunset
Sunrise
Fish
Symbol
Mark
Realm
Tree
Crossing
Shadow
Swan
Forge
Banner
Voyage
Rose
Song
Raven
Point
Mountain
Island
Forest
Carnation
Gaze
Ship
Cave
Phoenix
Soul
Teacup
Muse
Chest
Courser
Katana
Goddess
Hoard
Jumper
Rider
Chaser
Seeker
Explorer
Lover
Hunter
Beater
Racer
Piercer
Charger
Speeder
Falcon
Paladin
Cavalier
Spear
Surfer
Strider
Genie
Caravan
Dreamer
Folly
Money Pit
Beauty
Mule
Work Horse
Moneymaker
Starship
Hauler
Fortune
Dream
Pride
Gamble
Downfall
Regret
Savior
Miracle
Last Chance
Last Stand
Adventure
Jewel
Surprise
Cutter
Cruiser
Spice
Tiger
Start
Angel
Daughter
Girl
Arrow
Bolt
Scholar
Home
Namer
Sting
Apprentice
Walrus
Schooner
Pony
Stick
Wallet
Cone
Carnival
Chapel
Echo
Name
Bear
Storm
Bucket
Bilge
Wheel
Wizard
Wall
Unicorn
Oath
Ghost
Engine
Scallop
Kiwi
Gambit
Pearl
Maid
Mare
Citadel
Dart
Giant
Pioneer
Freehold
Sentry
Sentinel
Zephyr
Terminus
Pinecone
Sickle
Ladybug
Enchantress
Pilgrim
Alligator
Legend
Obelisk
Women
Stars
Dreams
Waves
Secrets
Whispers
Storms
Eyes
Hands
Riches
Changes
Worlds
Words
Echoes
Winds
Leaves
Clouds
Legends
Sails
Beasts
Oceans
Idols
Faces
Names
Thoughts
Roses
Coins
Cups
Wands
Swords
Wings
Tears
Flags
Scars
Tongues
Deeds
Ways
Means
Mysteries
Wonders
Fools
Souls
Roots
Fronds
Branches
Vines
Flowers
Stones
Seas
Smiles
Bees
Sounds
Paths
Feathers
Chants
Sparkles
Skies
Stories
Roads
Keys
Spades
Diamonds
Hearts
Clubs
Wisps
Numbers
Memories
Wheels
Strings
Lands
Eggs
Hills
Mountains
Lakes
Tiles
Cords
Knots
Songs
Nails
Sheets
Books
Pages
Knobs
Voices
Sparks
Shores
Tides
Forms
Motes
${female titles}%s
${male titles}s
${gender-neutral titles}s
Jade
Rain
Dominion
Leviathan
Salvation
Fate
Change
Sorrow
Glass
Crystal
Heaven
Sand
Moonlight
Dawn
Dusk
Mystery
Magic
Fire
Water
Starlight
Lightning
Steel
Glory
Stone
Bravery
Poetry
Promise
Mirth
Olympus
Charity
Mercy
Hope
Virtue
Fortitude
Enlightenment
Might
Destiny
Grass
Clarity
Serenity
Tranquility
Paradise
Contentment
Strength
Power
Salt
Atlantis
Herring
Doubt
Flint
Spring
Summer
Autumn
Snow
Time
Space
Paper
Rice
Wheat
Bread
Cheddar
Motion
Sagebrush
Lead
Copper
Bronze
Brass
Silver
Gold
Cloth
Junk
Logic
Silence
Wine
Money
Slate
Graphite
Cobalt
Platinum
Wood
Grain
Fission
Fusion
Life
Hair
Smoke
Essence
Clay
Myth
Victory
Defiance
Borneo
Grace
Lord
Prince
King
Emperor
Duke
Baron
Master
Lady
Princess
Queen
Empress
Duchess
Mistress
Saint
Captain
Champion
Admiral
Sovereign
Commodore
Elcid
Henry
Nelson
Randall
Ivan
James
Atanu
George
Arthur
Caspian
Canute
Enki
Richard
John
William
Donald
Samuel
Khufu
Edward
Sargon
Cyrus
Darius
Vipra
Raja
Ranpir
Jayesh
Shang
Xian
Alan
Logan
Eric
Malcolm
Monty
Dana
Philip
Isiah
Nasser
Rashid
Ahmed
Waleed
Mobutu
Osamu
Tarou
Partha
Salvador
Zuhair
Kenji
Takeshi
Hidekai
Chen
Mon Ping
Ruslan
Vladimir
Fyodor
Hammurabi
Denton
Xiang
Zhong
Bapu
Kouadio
Santiago
Rafael
Ignacio
Bruno
Martin
Starbuck
Zeus
Poseidon
Perry
Crockett
Thomas
Robert
Paul
Raymond
Godwin
Abraham
Tycho
Kane
Loki
Thor
Archibald
Oberon
Julian
Graham
Baako
Kojo
Yakouba
Jones
Yoshi
Kazuo
Aroon
Chung
Guang
Isamu
Hong
Hulin
Jiro
Kasem
Quon
Zhen
Diogo
Xyron
Orpheus
Pushkin
Justinian
Achilles
Hayward
Sejong
Sirius
Glenn
Azad
Khalil
Ravi
Sirhan
Joseph
Mary
Anne
Genevieve
Elizabeth
Shanshan
Ling
Shuang
Maria
Isabella
Fiona
Caroline
Catherine
Victoria
Jane
Emily
Nefertiti
Fatima
Sophia
Katerina
Teresa
Etana
Awan
Xena
River
Aletheia
Sara
Zara
Olympia
Layla
Surya
Shira
Anita
Sato
Mika
Mariko
Olga
Jing
Marianne
Natalie
Julia
Faye
Deirdre
Jaina
Isabel
Neela
Durga
Devi
Madhavi
Kavya
Pari
Riya
Amwe
Nakoyan
Akua
Sofia
Gloria
Catalina
Pilar
Elena
Athena
Calypso
Ingrid
Alana
Lori
Diana
Ellen
Rebecca
Valerie
Michelle
Jolene
Sally
Beatrice
Winnie
Christine
Evelyn
Ramona
Harriet
Janice
Samantha
Josephine
Amara
Delu
Songmi
Paula
Andrea
Lien
Mako
Misako
Niyati
Saura
Shima
Ting
Vanita
April
Scarlet
Rissa
Abilene
Marietta
Henrietta
Belinda
Antigone
Bernice
Ishtar
Shannon
Iris
Amina
Khalida
Najla
Nayyirah
Rana
Samara
Sura
Zarifa
Andromeda
Cassiopeia
Aaberg
Abbott
Abdulah
Abernathy
Aboagye
Abramovich
Abruzzi
Acevedo
Achtenberg
Ackerman
Acosta
Adama
Adams
Adeboye
Adeel
Adkins
Afridi
Aguero
Aguilar
Aguirre
Aizawa
Akagi
Alexander
Alfaro
Al Hashimi
Allen
Allison
Alvarado
Alvarez
Amundsen
Andersen
Anderson
Andrade
Andreeva
Andrzejczyk
Andrews
Anthony
Archer
Arellano
Arias
Armstrong
Arnold
Arroyo
Ashley
Asimov
Astrologo
Atkins
Atkinson
Austin
Avalos
Avasarala
Avery
Avila
Ayala
Ayers
Bailey
Baker
Baldwin
Ball
Ballard
Banks
Barajas
Barker
Barnes
Barnett
Barr
Barrera
Barrett
Barron
Barry
Bartlett
Barton
Bass
Bates
Batty
Bauer
Bautista
Baxter
Bean
Beard
Beasley
Beck
Becker
Beil
Bell
Beltran
Bender
Benitez
Benjamin
Bennett
Benson
Bentley
Benton
Berg
Berger
Bernal
Bernard
Berry
Best
Bishop
Blackburn
Blackwell
Blair
Blake
Blanchard
Blankenship
Blevins
Bond
Bonilla
Booker
Boone
Booth
Bova
Bowen
Bowers
Bowman
Boyd
Boyer
Boyle
Bradford
Bradley
Bradshaw
Brady
Branch
Brandt
Bravo
Brennan
Brewer
Bridges
Briggs
Brin
Brock
Brooks
Brown
Browning
Bruce
Bryan
Bryant
Buchanan
Buck
Buckley
Bullock
Burch
Burgess
Burke
Burnett
Burns
Burroughs
Burton
Bush
Butler
Byrd
Cabrera
Cain
Calderon
Caldwell
Calhoun
Callahan
Camacho
Cameron
Campbell
Campos
Cannon
Cano
Cantrell
Cantu
Card
Cardenas
Carey
Carlson
Carpenter
Carr
Carrillo
Carroll
Carson
Carter
Case
Casey
Castaneda
Castillo
Castro
Cervantes
Chambers
Chan
Chandler
Chang
Chapman
Charles
Chase
Chavez
Cherry
Choi
Christensen
Christian
Church
Cisneros
Clarke
Clayton
Clements
Cline
Cobb
Cochran
Coffey
Cohen
Cole
Coleman
Collier
Collins
Colon
Combs
Compton
Conley
Conner
Conrad
Contreras
Conway
Cook
Cooper
Copeland
Cordova
Correa
Cortes
Cortez
Costa
Craig
Crane
Crawford
Crichton
Crosby
Cross
Cruz
Cuevas
Cummings
Cunningham
Curry
Curtis
Dalton
Daniel
Daniels
Darko
Daugherty
Davenport
David
Davidson
Davila
Davis
Dawson
Dean
Deckard
De Jesus
De la Cruz
De la Rosa
De Leon
Delgado
Dennis
Dent
Diaz
Dick
Dickerson
Dickson
Dillon
Dixon
Dodson
Dominguez
Donaldson
Donovan
Dorsey
Dougherty
Douglas
Doyle
Drake
Drummer
Duarte
Dudley
Duffy
Duncan
Dunlap
Dunn
Duran
Durham
Dyer
Eaton
Edwards
Elliott
Ellis
Ellison
English
Enriquez
Erickson
Escobar
Esparza
Espinosa
Espinoza
Esquivel
Estes
Estrada
Evans
Everett
Farley
Farmer
Farrell
Faulkner
Felix
Ferguson
Fernandez
Fields
Figueroa
Finley
Fischer
Fisher
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleming
Fletcher
Flores
Floyd
Flynn
Foley
Ford
Foster
Fowler
Francis
Franco
Frank
Franklin
Frazier
Frederick
Freeman
French
Friedman
Frost
Frye
Fuentes
Fuller
Gaiman
Gaines
Galindo
Gallagher
Gallegos
Galvan
Garcia
Gardner
Garner
Garrett
Garrison
Garza
Gates
Gentry
Gibbs
Gibson
Gilbert
Giles
Gill
Gillespie
Gilmore
Glover
Gomez
Gonzales
Gonzalez
Goodman
Goodwin
Gordon
Gould
Grant
Graves
Greene
Greer
Gregory
Griffin
Griffith
Grimes
Gross
Guerra
Guerrero
Guevara
Gutierrez
Guzman
Hahn
Hail
Haldeman
Hale
Haley
Hall
Hamilton
Hammond
Hampton
Hancock
Hanna
Hansen
Hanson
Hardin
Harding
Hardy
Harmon
Harper
Harrell
Harrington
Harris
Harrison
Hart
Hartman
Harvey
Hawkins
Hayden
Hayes
Haynes
Heath
Heinlein
Hebert
Henderson
Hendricks
Hendrix
Hensley
Henson
Herbert
Herman
Hernandez
Herrera
Hess
Hester
Hickman
Hicks
Higgins
Hill
Hines
Hinton
Hobbs
Hodge
Hodges
Hoffman
Hogan
Holden
Holland
Holloway
Holmes
Holt
Hood
Hoover
Hopkins
Horn
Horne
Horton
House
Houston
Howard
Howe
Howell
Huang
Hubbard
Huber
Hudson
Huerta
Huff
Huffman
Hughes
Hugo
Hull
Humphrey
Hunt
Hurley
Hurst
Hutchinson
Huxley
Huynh
Ibarra
Ingram
Jackson
Jacobs
Jacobson
Janeway
Jaramillo
Jarvis
Jefferson
Jenkins
Jennings
Jensen
Jimenez
Johns
Johnson
Johnston
Jordan
Juarez
Kaur
Keith
Keller
Kelley
Kelly
Kemp
Kennedy
Kent
Kerr
Khan
Kirby
Kirk
Klein
Kline
Knapp
Knight
Knox
Koch
Kramer
Krueger
Kubrick
Kusanagi
Lamb
Lambert
Landry
Lane
Lang
Lara
Larsen
Larson
Lawrence
Lawson
Leach
Leal
Le Blanc
Le Guin
Leon
Leonard
Lester
Levy
Lewis
Lindsey
Lister
Little
Livingston
Lloyd
Long
Lopez
Love
Lovecraft
Lowe
Lowery
Lozano
Lucas
Lucero
Lugo
Luna
Lynch
Lynn
Lyons
MacDonald
Macias
Mack
Madden
Maddox
Magana
Mahoney
Maldonado
Malone
Mann
Manning
Marin
Marks
Marquez
Marsh
Marshall
Martinez
Mason
Massey
Mata
Mathews
Mathis
Matthews
Maxwell
Mayer
Maynard
Mayo
Mays
McBride
McCall
McCann
McCarthy
McCarty
McClain
McClure
McConnell
McCormick
McCoy
McCullough
McDaniel
McDonald
McDowell
McFarland
McFly
McGee
McGuire
McIntosh
McIntyre
McKay
McKee
McKenzie
McKinney
McLaughlin
McLean
McMahon
McMillan
McPherson
Meadows
Medina
Medrano
Mejia
Melendez
Melton
Mendez
Mendoza
Mercado
Merritt
Meyer
Meyers
Meza
Michael
Middleton
Miles
Miller
Mills
Miranda
Mitchell
Molina
Monroe
Montes
Montgomery
Montoya
Moody
Moore
Mora
Morales
Moran
Moreno
Morgan
Morris
Morrison
Morrow
Morse
Morton
Moses
Mosley
Moss
Moyer
Mueller
Mullen
Mullins
Munoz
Murillo
Murphy
Murray
Myers
Nash
Nava
Navarro
Neal
Newman
Newton
Nguyen
Nichols
Nicholson
Nielsen
Nimoy
Niven
Nixon
Nolan
Norman
Norris
Norton
Novak
Nunez
O'Brien
Ochoa
O'Connell
O'Connor
Odom
Oliver
Olsen
Olson
O'Neal
O'Neill
Orozco
Ortega
Ortiz
Orwell
Osborne
Owen
Owens
Pace
Pacheco
Padilla
Page
Palacios
Palmer
Park
Parker
Parks
Parra
Parrish
Parsons
Patel
Patrick
Patterson
Patton
Payne
Pearson
Peck
Pena
Pennington
Peralta
Perez
Perkins
Peters
Petersen
Peterson
Pham
Phan
Phelps
Phillips
Pierce
Pineda
Pittman
Pitts
Pohl
Pollard
Ponce
Poole
Pope
Porter
Portillo
Potter
Potts
Pournelle
Powell
Powers
Pratchett
Pratt
Preston
Price
Proctor
Pruitt
Pugh
Quinn
Quintana
Quintero
Ramirez
Ramos
Ramsey
Randolph
Rangel
Rasmussen
Reed
Reese
Reeves
Reid
Reilly
Reyes
Reyna
Reynolds
Rhodes
Rich
Richards
Richardson
Richmond
Riley
Rimmer
Ripley
Rios
Rivas
Rivera
Rivers
Roach
Robbins
Roberson
Roberts
Robertson
Robinson
Robles
Rocha
Rodgers
Rodriguez
Rogers
Rojas
Rollins
Romero
Rosales
Rosario
Rosas
Ross
Roth
Rowe
Rowland
Rubio
Ruiz
Rush
Russell
Russo
Ryan
Salas
Salazar
Salgado
Salinas
Sampson
Sanchez
Sanders
Sandoval
Sanford
Santana
Santos
Saunders
Savage
Sawyer
Scalzi
Schaefer
Schmidt
Schmitt
Schneider
Schroeder
Schultz
Schwartz
Scott
Sellers
Serrano
Sexton
Shaffer
Shah
Sharp
Shatner
Shaw
Shelley
Shelton
Shepard
Sherman
Shields
Short
Sierra
Silva
Simmons
Simon
Simpson
Sims
Singh
Singleton
Sisko
Skinner
Sloan
Small
Smith
Snyder
Solis
Solo
Solomon
Sosa
Soto
Spears
Spence
Spencer
Spielberg
Stafford
Stanley
Stanton
Steele
Stein
Stephens
Stephenson
Stevens
Stevenson
Stewart
Stokes
Stout
Strickland
Stuart
Suarez
Sullivan
Summers
Sutton
Suzuki
Swanson
Sweeney
Tang
Tanner
Tapia
Tate
Taylor
Terrell
Terry
Thompson
Thornton
Todd
Torres
Townsend
Tran
Travis
Trejo
Trevino
Trujillo
Truong
Tucker
Turner
Tyler
Tyrell
Underwood
Vader
Valdez
Valencia
Valentine
Valenzuela
van Vogt
Vance
Vang
Vargas
Vasquez
Vaughan
Vaughn
Vazquez
Vega
Velasquez
Velazquez
Velez
Ventura
Verhoeven
Verne
Vikander
Villa
Villalobos
Villanueva
Villarreal
Villegas
Villeneuve
Vincent
Vonnegut
Wachowski
Wade
Wagner
Walker
Wallace
Waller
Walls
Walsh
Walter
Walters
Walton
Wang
Ward
Ware
Warner
Warren
Washington
Waters
Watkins
Watney
Watson
Watts
Weaver
Webb
Weber
Webster
Weeks
Weir
Weiss
Welch
Wells
Wheeler
Whitaker
Whitehead
Whitney
Wiggins
Wilcox
Wiley
Wilkerson
Wilkins
Wilkinson
Williams
Williamson
Willis
Wilson
Winters
Wolf
Wolfe
Wong
Woodard
Woods
Woodward
Wright
Wyatt
Xiong
Yang
Yates
Yoder
York
Young
Zamora
Zavala
Zelazny
Zhang
Zimmerman
Zuniga
Three
Four
Five
Seven
Eight
Nine
Eleven
Twelve
Double
Twin
Triple
Thirteen
Twenty
Fifty
One Hundred
One Thousand
Many
So Many
Too Many
No More
Several
Numerous
Enough
All the
 III
 VII
 VIII
A Quiet Truth
Abhay
Adir
Aeolus
Africa
Aigokeros
Alboran
Alexander Smollett
Allegiance
Allure
Almaak
Alvaro de Bazan
Amelia Earhart
Amerigo Vespucci
Annabel Lee
Annie Oakley
Anzio
Aquarius
Aquitaine
Arabella
Ardent
Aresa
Arethusa
Argo
Argus
Aries
Artemis
Arthur Foss
Asahi Maru
Atropos
Auvergne
Avenger
Baalbek
Babcock
Bainbridge
Barnacle
Barrabas
Barracuda
Baychimo
Bazinje
Beagle
Belleisle
Bellerophon
Bellipotent
Belo Horizonte
Belvidera
Benavidez
Beowulf
Berwick
Billy of Tea
Bismark
Black Bear
Blaison
Bodger
Bombay
Bonne Citoyenne
Bonnie Ship the Diamond
Borealis
Botany Bay
Brasilia
Brittin
Bucket of Bolts
Buzz Aldrin
Canabrava
Cape Town
Capricorn
Carrack
Casablanca
Cash is King
Cassard
Castilla
Centinela
Chakra
Challenger
Charles Lindbergh
Charles de Gaulle
Charlton
Chateau Gaillard
Chelmsford
Chennai
Chesapeake
Chichen Itza
Chidiock Tichborne
Chikuma
Choson
Choyo
Circe
Close-Hauled
Cocteau
Colonia
Colossus
Columbia
Compass Rose
Confucius
Constantinople
Constellation
Constitution
Cornwall
Coronado
Covenant
Crazy Horse
Crown Point
Cuyler
Dauntless
David Ricardo
Dazzler
Deep-Sea Baby
Dewey
Didimoi
Discovery
Dolphin
Donegal
Dorngas
Dunquerque
Eagleview
Ernest Shackleton
Elcano
Elisabeth Dane
Emiliano Zapata
Endeavor
Endurance
Enterprise
Equanimity
Essex
Eudamonia
Excelsior
Falling Snow
Fantastic Planet
Fenton
Firebolt
Firstborn
Flying Junkyard
Forbin
Forrestal
Fort Garry
Frida Kahlo
Fujiyama
Fuso
Galerna
Gambrill
Garcia Marquez
Garden of Eden
Garfish
Gemini
Geofon
George Washington
Geronimo
Gibraltar
Godavari
Golden Fleece
Golden Hind
Gone to Hilo
Good Egg
Gorgon
Gormand
Gorshkov
Great Egret
Guadalupe
Guerriere
Guinea
Hakuho
Hanse
Happy Returns
Harriet Tubman
Hatakaze
Hawk
Heliopolis
Henry Ford
Hero of Old
Hieland Laddie
Hispaniola
Hodgson
Horatio Hornblower
Hornet
Hortense
Hotspur
Humboldt
Humpback
Hunk of Junk
Hyuga
Icebreaker
Ihtheis
Immer Essen
In the Reeds
Indefatigable
Independence
Indomitable
Interdependence
Invincible
Istanbul
Izumo
Jack Tar
Jacques Cartier
James Cook
Java
Jeanne d'Arc
Jim Bowie
Jim Jones
Joseph Schumpeter
Johannesburg
John Henry
John Maynard Keynes
Jupiter
Kaiten
Kalvari
Kamorta
Kandahar
Karaboudjan
Karkinos
Karl Marx
Kasagi
Katori
Katsuragi
Keeling
Kersarge
Khagan
Khukri
Kirishima
Kolkata
Kongo
Kora
Kotetsu
Krios
Kuma
Kunisaki
La Loba
Labnathia
Laboon
Landsman
Laotzu
Laramie
Larry the Ship
Leif Erikson
Leopard
Lewis and Clark
Lezo
Libra
Lizard
Loaves and Fishes
Lou Chuan
Magar
Magellan
Magicienne
Magna Carta
Maidstone
Majestic
Malaga
Manzanita
Marblehead
Marco Polo
Marie Celeste
Marlinspike
Mars
Mary Ellen Carter
Mastico
Matsushima
Mayflower
Medway
Megalith
Mencius
Mercury
Merrimack
Mers-el-Kebir
Message in a Bottle
Mikaho
Milton Friedman
Minnow
Minotaur
Misaka
Mishima
Missouri
Mistral
Mjolnir
Momsen
Monitor
Monkey Business
Mont Blanc
Montana
Moshun
Murano
Musashi
Mutuality
Mysore
Nagato
Napoleon
Narcissus
Nautilus
Neil Armstrong
Nelson's Blood
Neptune
Nightingale
Nitro
No Gods, No Masters
Nomad
Normandy
North Star
Northumbria
Northwest Passage
Nunki
Observer
Odysseus
Okinawa
Okinoshima
Old Chariot
Old Ironsides
Old Maui
One Hand Clapping
Ophiuchus
Oracle
Orca
Orcus
Orion
Osumi
Ouroboros
Ozeki
Papillion
Parthenos
Patino
Patoka
Paul Bunyan
Pax Republica
Pecos
Pequod
Pharaoh
Pictou
Pinafore
Pisces
Pluto
Pluton
Pocahontas
Potemkin
Potosi
Powhatan
Preble
Pretoria
Primarch
Promised Land
Proteus
Puna
Purifying Gaze
Pyotr Velikiy
Pyramus
Quetzal
Quetzlcoatl
Rabbit
Rajput
Ranvir
Redoubtable
Reluctant
Remembrance
Renaissance
Renowned
Retribution
Richelieu
Riga
Righteous
Roald Amundsen
Roald Dahl
Robert Falcon Scott
Robin Hood
Rockingham
Rubis
Ryoju
Sacramento
Sagittarius
Saint Felix
Salamonie
Sally Ride
Saltash
Saman Kunan
Santa Fe
Santa Maria
Sardine
Saryu
Sassacus
Satsuma
Saturn
Savannah
Scheherazade
Scorpio
Scotia
Seaview
Sendai
Serviola
Shaka Zulu
Shalki
Shardul
Shenandoah
Sherwood
Shine in the Black
Shisumar
Shivalik
Shohei Maru
Silk Road
Simon Bolivar
Sinbad
Singapore
Sitting Bull
Skorpios
Skydiver
Slag Heap
Slipstream
Small Potatoes
Snowy Owl
Somerset
Soryu
Souverain
Soyuz
Spartacus
Speedwell
Spice of Life
Stapleton
Stargazer
Starscreamer
Starview
Steady Progress
Stonewall Jackson
Sturgeon
Sukanya
Sultana
Supply and Demand
Sutherland
Swiftsure
Swordfish
Syracuse
Syren
Tabar
Takasago
Talwar
Taos
Tarkash
Taurus
Tavros
Tea Clipper
Tears in Rain
Tenryu
Terrible Swift Sword
Thorstein Veblen
Throckmorton
Thunderfish
Tiamat
Ties That Bind
Times of Woe
Tinkat
Tochinoshin
Toksotis
Tonnant
Toralla
Toreador
Tortuga
Toulon
Tripoli
Tsukushi
Turon
Umbriago
Union
Unrivaled
Uranus
Valkyrie
Valparaiso
Vasco de Gama
Venerable
Venture
Venus
Vera Hugh
Verendrye
Vestal
Virgo
Visby
Vondel
Vympel
Wanderer
Washed Away
Wat Phra Kaew
Wild Rover
William Rockefeller
Winchester
Windjammer
Windstar
Winnipeg
Winston Churchill
Xiao Yi
Yamato
Yashima
Ydrohoos
Ye Ladies of Mars
Yellowstone
Yerevan
Yokozuna
Yorktown
Yoshino
Yuri Gagarin
Zereguchniy
Zheng He
Zumwalt
Zygos
%'s 
Cheng
Dong
Heng
Liao
Ning
Shan
Shen
Sheng
Tian
Yuan
Zheng
Chun
Ding
Feng
Gang
Lian
Ming
Xing
Zang
Zhao
Zhou
Zhuang
${sometimes a successor}
 Shan
 Tang
 Chuan
 Shun
 Gang
Wave
Wind
Flame
Swift
Steam
Night
 King
 Queen
 Ace
gazer
stream
streak
light
born
baby
bolt
flare
burst
bright
girl
rider
lover
racer
jumper
seeker
sought
swept
piercer
chaser
hunter
beater
charger
speeder
runner
spear
sword
surfer
strider
dreamer
stinger
lord
lady
talker
walker
step
bringer
caller
bite
spinner
weaver
wisp
hero
gust
banner
swan
comet
dream
ghost
tongue
hawk
hand
shadow
breather
wing
lace
bark
honey
-Crossed
well
worn
R.N.S. 
Aconcagua
Albaron
Alvand
Alverstone
Andrus
Aneto
Annapurna
Antelao
Antero
Antisana
Aragats
Ararat
Augusta
Azufral
Banahaw
Ben Nevis
Blackcomb
Blanc
Brandberg
Breithorn
Brewster
Brocken
Bross
Cathkin
Chongtar
Clemenceau
Cleveland
Colima
Crillon
Dapsang
Delos
Denali
Diran
Dufour
Eiger
Elbrus
Elgon
Erebus
Etna
Everest
Foraker
Forellen
Fuji
Galeras
Gannett
Garibaldi
Gasherbrum
Gerizim
Gistola
Gongga
Greylock
Guna
Haddington
Haleakala
Hebron
Hector
Helen
Hermon
Hotaka
Huangshan
Huascaran
Jaya
Kabru
Kailash
Kamet
Kangri
Kangto
Karjiang
Kenya
Kerinci
Kibo
Kilauea
Kilimanjaro
Kinabalu
Kirkpatrick
Kolahoi
Korbu
Koussi
Krakatoa
Lagginhorn
Laila
Latsga
Lengai
Lhotse
Lykaion
Mafadi
Makalu
Manaslu
Markham
Marmolada
Massif
Matterhorn
Mayon
McClintock
McKinley
McMaster
Meron
Mian
Mismi
Mitre
Monadnock
Motutapu
Muhabura
Mulhacen
Naltar
Nanshan
Nevado Sajama
Ngaliema
Nordend
Oppland
Ossa
Paektu
Paradiso
Parnassus
Pelion
Pennell
Presanella
Pumori
Rainier
Raleigh
Rangitoto
Ras Dashen
Razorback
Riding
Rimo
Rushmore
Sabinio
Sacagawea
Samsari
Sandia
Sant Jeroni
Saramati
Scafell
Schilthorn
Sembrano
Semeru
Shasta
Shavano
Shivling
Sidley
Silberhorn
Sinai
Snowdon
Steere
Strahlhorn
Taal
Tabor
Talgar
Tallac
Taranaki
Telemark
Timpanogos
Toba
Tochal
Toluca
Trivor
Tronador
Ubinas
Ultar
Vancouver
Vesuvius
Vinson
Weisshorn
Wutai
Yushan
D.S.S. 
Aristotle
Aristarchus
Archimedes
Attenborough
Avogadro
Abbe
Alcubierre
Angstrom
Babbage
Becquerel
Bernoulli
Bohr
Brahe
Chandrasekhar
Cherenkov
Coriolis
Coulomb
Crick
Curie
Democritus
Dewar
Dirac
Doppler
Einstein
Englert
Euler
Edison
Fahrenheit
Faraday
Fermi
Feynman
Fourier
Fresnel
Galvani
Geiger
Hawking
Heisenberg
Hertz
Higgs
Hooke
Hopper
Hubble
Huygens
Jenner
Joule
Kepler
Kimura
Lagrange
Lebedev
Legasov
Leibniz
Lovelace
Lyapunov
Mach
Marconi
Neumann
Newcomb
Okazaki
Oppenheimer
Pascal
Pauling
Penrose
Planck
Plot
Poincare
Poisson
Porco
Rayleigh
Richter
Roentgen
Ramanujan
Sagan
Schroedinger
Schwarzschild
Slotin
Tesla
Turing
Venter
Watt
I.M.S. 
F.S. 
Alder
Aloe
Arrowwood
Aspen
Asphodel
Balsam
Banyan
Baobab
Beech
Birch
Borage
Buckthorn
Carob
Cedar
Chestnut
Chinquapin
Coral
Cork
Cottonwood
Crabwood
Cypress
Dogwood
Ebony
Eucalyptus
Ginko
Hawthorn
Hazel
Hemlock
Hickory
Holly
Hophorn
Ilex
Ironwood
Joshua
Juniper
Kapok
Lancewood
Larch
Laurel
Linden
Locust
Magnolia
Mangrove
Maple
Medlar
Mesquite
Myrtle
Nightshade
Persimmon
Pinyon
Ponderosa
Poplar
Primrose
Privet
Quince
Raywood
Redbud
Redwood
Sassafras
Senna
Sequoia
Spruce
Spurge
Sumac
Sycamore
Tallow
Tamarack
Tamarisk
Teak
Terebinth
Torrey
Traveler
Walnut
Willow
Winterthorn
Yucca
S.S. 
Africanus
Agrippa
Antonius
Aquila
Atticus
Augustus
Aurelius
Brutus
Caesar
Caligula
Calpurnia
Cassius
Catilina
Cato
Catullus
Cicero
Cincinnatus
Claudius
Clemens
Commodus
Coriolanus
Crassus
Diocletian
Diogenes
Domitian
Fabius
Festus
Flaccus
Flavian
Gracchus
Hadrian
Horace
Julius
Licinius
Lucretia
Lucretius
Metella
Metellus
Milo
Nero
Nerva
Octavian
Ovid
Paullus
Petronius
Piso
Placidus
Plautus
Pliny
Plutarch
Pompeius
Pompilius
Porcia
Porsenna
Remus
Romulus
Roscius
Rufus
Sabinus
Sallust
Scaevola
Scipio
Severus
Suetonius
Sulla
Tacitus
Tarquin
Tiberius
Trajan
Valerian
Varus
Vespasian
Virgil
Allegheny
Alph
Amazon
Amur
Angara
Aras
Arkansas
Athabasca
Atrato
Avon
Barito
Barwon
Belaya
Bosna
Boyne
Brahmaputra
Branco
Breede
Brisbane
Catatumbo
Chambeshi
Clutha
Clwyd
Clyde
Colorado
Congo
Daly
Danube
Darling
Daugava
Dnieper
Dniester
Dongjiang
Dordogne
Ebro
Elbe
Essequibo
Euphrates
Flinders
Forth
Fraser
Gambia
Gandaki
Ganges
Garonne
Halys
Hanjiang
Hayle
Helmand
Hiwassee
Huai He
Huang He
Indus
Irawaddy
Irtysh
Ishim
Javari
Kaladan
Kama
Kasai
Kolyma
Krishna
Lachlan
Lagan
Lena
Loire
Loup
Mackenzie
Macquarie
Madeira
Magdalena
Mahanadi
Mekong
Mersey
Meuse
Mississippi
Modder
Mohawk
Murrumbidgee
Narva
Naryn
Neva
Niagara
Niger
Nile
Ohlanga
Onyx
Orange
Orinoco
Oxus
Oyono
Palala
Paraguay
Pastaza
Pechora
Pilcomayo
Pitt
Platte
Potomac
Rajang
Rhine
Rhone
Rio de la Plata
Rio Grande
Rio Negro
Rubicon
Saginaw
Salado
Salween
Sangamon
Sao Francisco
Saskatchewan
Sava
Schuylkill
Seine
Senegal
Sepik
Severn
Skagit
Song Cai
Songhua
Squamish
St. Lawrence
Sungari
Susquehanna
Tagus
Tambo
Tarim
Tauranga
Thames
Tiber
Tigris
Tocantins
Tsilma
Tyne
Ural
Uruguay
Vistula
Volga
Volta
Wabash
Waikato
Waimakariri
Wujiang
Yangtze
Yarra
Yenisei
Yukon
Zaire
Zambezi
Amaranth
Amaryllis
Ambrosia
Aster
Aubretia
Banksia
Begonia
Bellflower
Bergamot
Bluebell
Brier
Burdock
Buttercup
Candytuft
Catmint
Chrysanthemum
Clarkia
Clover
Columbine
Cornflower
Cranesbell
Daffodil
Daisy
Daphne
Forsythia
Foxglove
Foxtail
Freesia
Fuchsia
Gentian
Gillyflower
Ginger
Goldenrod
Heartsease
Heather
Hellebore
Hibiscus
Hollyhock
Honesty
Hosta
Hyacinth
Hydrangea
Jasmine
Jonquil
Lantana
Larkspur
Lily
Loosestrife
Lotus
Lupin
Mallow
Mimosa
Moonflower
Morel
Nettle
Orchid
Peony
Petunia
Phlox
Pincushion
Poke
Poppy
Purslane
Rosemary
Safflower
Saffron
Sage
Sedum
Slipper
Snapdragon
Snowdrop
Sorrel
Starflower
Stonecrop
Strawflower
Sundrop
Sunflower
Sweetpea
Thistle
Thyme
Trillium
Tulip
Verbena
Vetch
Viburnum
Viola
Waterlily
Windflower
Wisteria
Yarrow
Yellow
Alpha
Beta
Gamma
Delta
Epsilon
Hound
Reynard
Vixen
Coyote
Dhole
Fennec
Vulpine
Culpeo
Jackal
Dingo
Charlie
Foxtrot
Golf
Hotel
India
Juliet
Kilo
Lima
Mike
November
Oscar
Papa
Quebec
Romeo
Tango
Uniform
Victor
Whiskey
X-Ray
Yankee
Blackbeard
Bluebeard
Lilith
Horus
Baal
Chernabog
Abaddon
Satan
Mordecai
Jezebel
Pandora
Asmodan
Charon
Mordred
Baphomet
Haekati
Deava
Amon
Gehenna
Malik
Perdition
Nergal
Azazel
Lucifer
Vexan
Babi
Belial
Djinn
Nosferatu
Ravenna
Tarik
Agrona
Lorelei
Cassandra
Balthazar
Rasputin
Malachai
Bart
Draco
Gozer
Secor
Judas
Herod
Medusa
Gorkon
Naxo
Abigor
Seth
Apep
Ahriman
Morfran
Zagan
Mara
Koklir
Dracula
Usha
Grendel
Narkan
Vulkan
Chaxo
Garzad
Vlad
Gord
Urgok
Bruja
Dante
Cetus
Seren
Zenda
Bartram
Zell
Nictis
Ragnor
Maggard
Churlish
Mendacious
Unpleasant
Wretched
Drunken
Petty
Crimson
Dead
Blackguard
Ghoulish
Dreadful
Baleful
Venomous
Lost
Damned
Fallen
Brutal
Blinded
Bloody
Terrible
Horrible
Evil
Wicked
Trickster
Deadly
Rotten
Tattered
Rusty
Painful
Murderous
Sadist
Sadistic
Flayed
Greedy
Violent
Furious
Hideous
Profane
Cannibal
Manic
Salty
Greasy
Nasty
Cruel
Impaler
Grotesque
Hateful
Grim
Portly
Crazy
Penetrating
Miserable
Infectious
Hulking
Morning
Evening
Midnight
Flying
Poisoned
Towering
Sundered
Chaos
Boiling
Shackled
Bleeding
Scorched
Devouring
Ruinous
Ruined
Nightmare
Screaming
Suffocating
Crumbling
Crippled
Despairing
Uncontrollable
Infernal
Creaking
Leaking
Stained
Slaughtered
Hellish
Slavering
Ravening
Rabid
Wounded
Naked
Hobbled
Chained
Bound
Haunted
Piercing
Thunderous
Unending
Overwhelming
Sinking
Stinking
Simmering
Jagged
Silenced
Cancerous
Severed
Boiled
Naughty
Woeful
Silent
Churning
Blackened
Splattered
Flames of
Reign of
Death by
Screams of
Cackles of
Wrath of
Fist of
Hall of
Pit of
Teeth of
Abyss of
Chains of
Coils of
Fits of
House of
Scalliwag
Razzia
Spectre
Rover
Rambler
Dragon
Killer
Bandit
Thief
Chain
Raptor
Stag
Marauder
Dominator
Knife
Cutlass
Slaughter
Inferno
Abyss
Tyrant
Usurper
Ravager
Massacre
Exile
Intruder
Naga
Dungeon
Hook
Tattoo
Horns
Slash
Morningstar
Serpent
Hammer
Children
Thunderbolt
Tomb
Barrel
Tankard
Brig
Raider
Revenge
Anger
Dagger
Skull
Plague
Snakes
Abattoir
Asylum
Sausage
Striker
Sorcerer
Banshee
Corpse
Butcher
Mother
Eidolon
Lashes
Brute
Reaper
Witch
Wench
Tide
Vandal
Grog
Shanker
Stabber
Maniac
Lunatic
Grave
Lies
Razor
Maiden
Shards
Mess
Skag
Bomber
Conqueror
Head
Face
Dirge
Stalker
Slayer
Vulture
Anthrax
Barge
Hulk
Galley
Lugger
Fortress
Chamber
Prison
Monster
Beast
Demon
Ogre
Corsair
Volcano
Omen
Trap
Ritual
Devil
Hydra
Army
Doom
Death
Ruin
Pain
Agony
Decay
Screams
Torment
Torture
Madness
Insanity
Misery
Anguish
Conquest
Domination
Darkness
Spite
Violation
Apocalypse
Ragnarok
Hell
Plunder
Malice
Destruction
Blood
Poison
Blight
Misfortune
Damnation
Contagion
Betrayal
Hatred
Vileness
Murder
Oppression
Panic
Fury
Rage
Grief
Addiction
Slavery
Mischief
Cataclysm
Immolation
Wrath
Blackness
Ennui
Itchiness
Poverty
Adventure Galley
Adventure Prize
Al Capone
Amity
Ampoliros
Anne Bonny
Anne Dieu-le-Veut
Antelope
Antonia Graza
Asphyxiation
Attila the Hun
Baba Yaga
Bachelor's Delight
Barge of the Dead
Barsheba
Bartholomew Roberts
Bell of Souls
Benighted
Benjamin Hornigold
Betrayer
Bewitched
Bilgewater
Billy Bones
Billy the Kid
Black Corsair
Black Freighter
Black Hand
Black Prince
Black Spot
Blighter
Bloody Mary
Boiled Alive
Bony Fingers
Broken Wing
Buried Alive
Burned Alive
Cacophony
Caleuche
Calico Jack
Cancer
Captain Anton
Captain Flint
Captain Hook
Cat o' Nine Tails
Catherine Hagerty
Cement Shoes
Chained to an Oar
Charlotte Badger
Charlotte de Berry
Charnel Ground
Cheeki Breeki
Cheung Po Tsai
Ching Shih
Christina Anna Skytte
Christopher Moody
Chupacabra
Cold Winter
Concrete Shoes
Crown of Thorns
Danegeld
Davy Jones' Locker
Dead Dog
Dead Man's Chest
Death Blow
Death Roll
Death Stare
Death's Head
Deering
Demeter
Despair
Diamond Grey
Dragut
Dread Pirate Roberts
Dreadnought
Drowning in Blood
Edward Teach
Edward Teague
Elaine Marley
Elcid Barrett
Eliza Battle
Elizabeth Bathory
Elizabeth Hurwood
Elizabeth Swann
Emanuel Wynn
Eurydice
Evil Intent
Executioner
Fancy Dutch
Fanny Campbell
Festering Wounds
Flayed Alive
Flying Dutchman
Flying King
Francis Drake
Francois l'Olonnais
Furioso
Gaping Wound
Garbage Day
Glatiatrix
Golden Calf
Good Fortune
Gorfival
Gorkon Death Sloop
Governor Parr
Grace O'Malley
Grey Wolf
Guybrush Threepwood
Hangman's Noose
Happy Birthday
Happy Return
Havoc
Heart of Darkness
Hector Barbarossa
Helen Tavrel
Henry Every
Henry Morgan
Horrible Flies
Hyperion
In Tatters
In the Flesh
Indian Queen
Inhuman Scream
Interfector
Into the Maw of Hell
Iron Mountain
Israel Hands
Jack Shandy
Jack Sparrow
Jack the Ripper
Jacquotte Delahaye
Jeanne de Clisson
Jesamiah Acorne
Jolly Roger
Joyita
Kanhoji Angre
Katherine
Keelhauled
Kukri
La Llorona
La Nouvelle Trompeuse
Lady Killigrew
Lady Lovibond
Lamentation
Lamprey
Lark
LeChuck
Lo Hon-cho
Long Ben
Long John Silver
Low Blow
Malefactor
Man o' War
Margaret
Maria Lindsey
Mary Celeste
Mary Read
Merry Christmas
Missee Lee
Mongol Hordes
Morgan le Fay
Morning Star
Mortzestus
Murmillo
Mushroom Cloud
Naglfar
Necros
Needleroozer
Night Rambler
Nuclear Winter
Octavius
One-Eyed Willy
Ourang Medan
Paulsgrave Williams
Pembroke
Philip Lyne
Pirate Jenny
Polyphemus
Postillion
Princess Augusta
Prosperous
Pulled Apart
Punishment
Quedagh Merchant
Queen Anne's Revenge
Rachel Wall
Ranger
Rapier
Red Gauntlet
Red Sonja
Resolven
Retiarius
Rising Sun
Roast Baby
Rose Pink
Royal Fortune
Royal James
Sadie the Goat
Samnite
Samuel Axe
Sayyida al Hurra
Scowerer
Sea Bird
Sea Nymph
Sea Witch
Sea Wolf
Secutor
Septimus Severus
Shipworm
Sleepless Nights
So Much Blood
St. Marie
Staggers and Jags
Stede Bonnet
Stiletto
Stilled Voices
Styx
Tarnation
Teignmouth Electron
Terminus Est
Terrifying
Terror
Teuta of Illyria
The Master of Ballantrae
The Pirate King
The Walrus
The William
Thomas Tew
Three Skeleton Key
Throne of Skulls
Tigress
Torquemada
Torturer
Twenty One Friends
Unspeakable Acts
Unspeakable
Valeria of the Red Brotherhood
Vampire
Virago
Virulence
Vlad the Impaler
Wendigo
Werewolf
Where's the Wolf?
Whirlwind
Whydah
Wild Cat
William Kidd
Wolf's Claw
Wyndham Galley
Yo Ho Ho
Zebrina
Zokk Death Sloop
Hate
Mind
Dread
Bone
Brain
Foul
Scream
Kill
Worm
Shock
Gore
Hard
Filth
oath
fire
spit
fury
bath
blade
flame
curse
scowl
wrench
wrought
corpse
fear
stain
shark
-eater
cradle
pulse
fang
claw
grave
hammer
river
plague
storm
rage
slag
fist
punch
slash
chop
wreck
stab
beast
monger
monster
slayer
snake
sport
shard
spike
stump
snap
frag
flicker
boil
raider
stalker
swarm
fiend
mouth
face
finger
sliver
splinter
splitter
snapper
flinger
breaker
blaster
slave
sucker
horse
tooth
stench
gard
shot
-eye
head
star
fink
spot
butcher
prison
stone
Stolen
End of
Hopeless
Hell's
Angry
Burning
Rotted
Psychotic
Psycho
Toxic
Punctured
Fractured
Vanquished
Drowned
Spoiled
Masters
Laughter
Innocence
Happiness
Honor
Dignity
Breath
Angels
Music
Childhood
Triumph
Boys
Embrace
Caress
Cursed
Dogged
Fanged
Fated
Grievous
Harsh
Holy
Iron
Mailed
Marked
Moonlit
Plated
Relentless
Sharpened
Silvered
Studded
Stygian
Tempered
Tireless
Unholy
Zealous
Accountant
Assassin
Berserker
Blades
Cage
Cliff
Crag
Crusader
Enforcer
Fist
Flail
Glaive
Inquisitor
Judge
Kingdom
Lance
Mace
Nemesis
Ninja
Peacemaker
Priest
Protector
Punisher
Ravine
Rivets
Saracen
Samurai
Shackle
Shield
Slave
Steed
Talisman
Templar
Torch
Viking
Vindicator
Warhorse
Whip
Bars
Chains
Spires
Bastion
Helm
Sloop
Drums
Golem
Cask
Spikes
Tongs
Maze
Cauldron
Guns
Cannons
Tome
Staff
Scepter
Vision
Grasp
Rock
Order
the Lost
St. Dunstan
Gilgamesh
Boudicca
Prometheus
Sisyphus
Tantalus
Rome
Despite your relative inexperience, the captain of the <npc> is willing to pay you <payment> for an escort into a dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
Despite your relative inexperience, the captain of the <npc> is willing to pay you <payment> for an escort out of this dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to escort them safely into a dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to escort them safely out of this dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
Despite your relative inexperience, the captain of the <npc> is willing to pay you <payment> for an escort through this dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to escort them safely through this dangerous region of space to reach <destination> by <date>.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside: "We are under attack! <planet> is under attack by pirates! We need every combat-worthy ship to join the defenses!" The authorities will probably pay you quite well if you assist them, but this could also be an easy way to get yourself killed.
A few militia pilots have gathered to help repel the pirate attack. You join them, and take off together...
The local Navy garrison is preparing to repel the pirate attack. You join them, and take off together...
The local Syndicate defense forces are preparing to repel the pirate attack. You join them, and take off together...
Defeat an alien raid on <destination>.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside: "We are under attack! <planet> is under attack by alien raiders! We need every combat-worthy ship to join the defenses!" The authorities will probably pay you quite well if you assist them, but this could also be an easy way to get yourself killed.
The local Syndicate defense forces are preparing to repel the alien attack. You join them, and take off together...
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still Korath circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
The government of <planet> pays you <payment> for helping to drive off the raiders.
These <bunks> passengers want to escape the pollution and crime on <origin> and settle on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Bring a tourist to <planet>
This tourist wants to see <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Bring tourists to <planet>
These <bunks> tourists want to see <destination>. They are willing to pay you <payment>.
Bring wealthy tourists to <planet>
These <bunks> wealthy tourists want to see <destination>, and wish to travel in a luxurious ship for the journey. They are willing to pay you <payment>.
Bring a tourist home to <planet>
This tourist is headed home to <destination>, and will pay you <payment>.
Bring tourists home to <planet>
These <bunks> tourists are headed home to <destination>. They are willing to pay you <payment>.
Bring wealthy tourists home to <planet>
These <bunks> wealthy tourists are headed home to <destination>, and wish to travel in a luxurious ship for the journey. They are willing to pay you <payment>.
Strike breakers to <planet>
Bring <bunks> strike breakers to <destination>, to take the place of mine workers who are on strike. The company will pay you <payment>.
You unload the strike breakers amid an angry crowd of protesters held back by police. When you return to your ship, you find that the company has transferred the agreed-upon payment of <payment> into your account.
Bring <bunks> strike breakers to <destination>, to take the place of textile workers who are on strike. The company will pay you <payment>.
Bring <bunks> strike breakers to <destination>, to take the place of factory workers who are on strike. The company will pay you <payment>.
Colonists to <planet>
These <bunks> people are hoping to join a colony on <destination>. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
The colonists depart your ship after paying you <payment>.
Stranded field trip to <planet>
These <bunks> school students have been stranded on a field trip due to the unexpected bankruptcy of their booked transport. The school and parents have put up a reward of <payment> for them to be returned home to <destination>.
The students excitedly rush off your ship into the arms of their waiting parents. The adventure was fun, but they're very pleased to be safely home after so long. The school deposits <payment> into your account.
Prisoner transport to <planet>
Bring <bunks> petty criminals to <destination>, where they will serve their sentences as mine laborers. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of several well-armed guards as they prepare to repay their debts to society as forced laborers in <planet>'s mines. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport <bunks> petty criminals to <destination>, where they will serve their sentences as factory laborers. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of several well-armed guards as they prepare to repay their debts to society as forced laborers in <planet>'s factories. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport <bunks> petty criminals to <destination>, where they will serve their sentences as domestic servants. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of several well-armed guards as they prepare to repay their debts to society as domestic servants for <planet>'s wealthy elite. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport <bunks> petty criminals to a penal colony on <destination>. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers shuffle unhappily out of the ship under the watchful eye of several well-armed guards as they prepare to repay their debts to society in a penal colony on this remote world. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport <bunks> violent felons to a penal colony on <destination>. They must be held in suitable facilities made for the transfer of criminals. Payment is <payment>.
Your shackled passengers offer bitter curses as burly and well-armed guards practically beat them out of your ship, driving them in the direction of a penal colony on this remote world. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Parolee transport to <planet>
Transport <bunks> prisoners home after completing their sentences of hard labor. Payment is <payment>.
The released prisoners walk out into the spaceport with nothing but their meager belongings and discharge paperwork. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Transport <bunks> prisoners home after completing their sentences as domestic servants. Payment is <payment>.
Transport <bunks> prisoners home after completing their sentences in a penal colony. Payment is <payment>.
The released prisoners walk into the spaceport with nothing but discharge paperwork and the clothes on their backs. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Recycle garbage
<origin> produces a lot of garbage that needs to be disposed of off-station. Transport <cargo> to the industrial solid waste recycler on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off the <commodity> at an especially smelly solid waste recycler and collect your payment of <payment>.
Fire retardant to <planet>
A major wildfire has occurred on <destination> and various settlements on the planet have been affected. Bring <cargo> to <planet> by <date> to assist in the firefighting efforts. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity> and collect your payment of <payment>. A group of <planet> citizens thank you for your assistance and bid you farewell.
Firefighters to <planet>
A major wildfire has occurred on <destination> and various settlements on the planet have been affected. Bring a team of <bunks> firefighters to <planet> by <date> to assist in the firefighting efforts. Payment is <payment>.
You wish the firefighting team well in their efforts and collect your payment of <payment>. A group of <planet> citizens comes to guide the team away to a nearby tent, and thank you for your assistance.
Wanted corsair near <system>
A small pirate fighter named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Wanted outlaw near <system>
A well armed pirate fighter named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Wanted criminal near <system>
A light pirate warship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Wanted bandit near <system>
A medium pirate warship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Wanted pirate near <system>
A sizeable pirate warship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Wanted warlord near <system>
A heavy warship known as the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Disguised bandit near <system>
A medium pirate warship named the <npc> is posing as a merchant ship near the <system> system. Find a merchant ship with a matching name, then destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Disguised pirate near <system>
A sizable pirate warship named the <npc> is posing as a merchant ship near the <system> system. Find a merchant ship with a matching name, then destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Disguised warlord near <system>
A heavy warship known as the <npc> is posing as a merchant ship near the <system> system. Find a merchant ship with a matching name, then destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Stolen ship near <system>
A wanted criminal is fleeing in a stolen ship, the <npc>, which is about to enter this system. Board the ship and detain the criminal in a brig, then bring them to <destination> by <date>. Reward for capture: <payment>.
You blast your way onto the ship and confine the fleeing criminal to your ship's brig. Time to deliver them to <planet>.
The government of <planet> gratefully pays you <payment> for apprehending the criminal.
Stolen warship near <system>
Several wanted criminals are fleeing in a stolen warship, the <npc>, which is about to enter this system. Board the ship and detain the criminals in a brig, then bring them to <destination> by <date>. Reward for capture: <payment>.
You blast your way onto the ship, subdue the fleeing criminals, and confine them to your ship's brig. Time to deliver them to <planet>.
The government of <planet> gratefully pays you <payment> for apprehending the criminal gang.
Marauder interceptor near <system>
A Marauder interceptor named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Small Marauder near <system>
A small Marauder ship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Marauder near <system>
A Marauder ship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Large Marauder near <system>
A large Marauder ship named the <npc> has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Small Marauders near <system>
A fleet of small Marauder ships, led by a vessel named the <npc>, has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy the whole fleet and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Marauders near <system>
A fleet of Marauder ships, led by a vessel named the <npc>, has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy the whole fleet and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
Large Marauders near <system>
A fleet of large Marauder ships, led by a vessel named the <npc>, has been attacking merchants near the <system> system. Destroy the whole fleet and return to <planet> by <day> for payment (<payment>).
When you enter the <origin> spaceport, you're almost immediately stopped by a grizzled old man. "You some kinda rookie, or you asking for a death wish?" he asks.
	"Excuse me?"
	"Yeah, I'm pretty fresh. Is there something I'm doing wrong by walking in here?"
	"I've been piloting for a while. I think I know what I'm doing."
	The old man chuckles. "Ain't nothing wrong with walking in here. It's what you're flying in with that's the issue.
	The old man chuckles. "Well I don't think so after what I've seen.
	"I seen those ships of yours. That fleet is juicy pickings for pirates if I've ever seen it." You look confusedly at the man. "Oh, do I need to spell it out for you? Pirates love to take out soft targets with lots of potential cargo, and your fleet is looking pretty heavy on cargo space with hardly any defenses."
	"Oh, so that's why I've been seeing pirates everywhere I go."
	"So what should I do about that?"
	"Don't you think I know that already?"
	"What, you think they just had it out for you because you look funny? No, pirates have their reasons.
	"Either get yourself more guns in that fleet or get rid of some cargo space. Park your ships, sell them, doesn't matter, so long as the pirates don't see them, or you make it not worth it to try and steal whatever you might have. Pirates see a bunch of freighters flying around unprotected and they're going to take their chances. Doesn't matter if you actually have anything or not."
	"Thanks for the advice."
	"I'll make sure to go do that. Thanks."
	"No problem. Just looking out for a fellow captain. No use in getting got because you didn't know any better. But now you do." The man gives you a firm pat on the back before walking off.
	"Sure doesn't look like it." The man gives an exaggerated shrug and starts to walk off. "Alright then, get yourself killed. Not like I used to haul cargo from one end of the galaxy to the other for fifty years or anything." The man gets further and further away, continuing to grumble about "kids these days" and other such things until you can no longer hear him.
You walk into a bar in the spaceport looking for something to eat when a man sitting at a table in the corner looks up and takes notice of you. "It's Captain <last>, the famous warrior! Barkeep, give <first> a drink on my tab."
	"Glad to get some recognition. I work hard out here."
	"Famous warrior?"
	"Of course! Word travels fast in the galaxy, and word on the hyperspace lanes is that you're quite the fighter."
reputation: Republic
reputation: Free Worlds
reputation: Syndicate
	"It doesn't help that you've pissed off the law, either," someone behind you says, not sounding too happy.
	More patrons take notice of the conversation and begin chattering amongst themselves. "Quite the force to be reckoned with, I've heard," you overhear one of them mumble.
	"You might want to watch your back," another says to you. "Plenty of pirates with more brains than sense might be looking to make a name for themselves by taking out such a famous captain. A person like you has to have some enemies, and you never know who might have put a price on your head. A bounty hunter could retire early on the fat purse they'd get from spacing you."
	"I'll be fine. My ship is strong enough to stand against anything."
	"Maybe I should go into hiding for a while."
	"Oh, I'm sure it is. You wouldn't have gotten this notorious without being able to hold your own."
	"You'd need to hide for more than just a while, but laying low in a small ship might help to stay off the radar of pirates and bounty hunters."
	After a few more minutes of mumbling, the bar returns to like it was before you entered. The food you ordered arrives and you dig in.
Shipment to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>, the home of Southbound Shipyards, the largest ship manufacturer in the region. Payment is <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>, the home of Kraz Cybernetics, the largest weapons manufacturer in the region. Payment is <payment>.
Han Sizer celebration
In celebration of Han Sizer month, bring <fare> to all the marked systems and return to <destination> for <payment>.
Your passengers thank you for taking them on a journey around the Rim, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
As instructed, you
open a deposit box
open a storage locker
in an unmarked and uninhabited warehouse
near your landing site
and pick up the mystery package. It is a small black cube, about two centimeters to a side, surprisingly heavy for its size, with no markings of any kind.
Odd.
Strange.
You think you see a shady figure watching you, but it could be your imagination.
You overhear someone giving your description, but you can't see where it's coming from or who they're talking to.
As you leave, you make eye contact with a dangerous-looking individual. Were they watching you? Probably a coincidence.
leave the mystery cube by the side of the road a few kilometers away from the spaceport.
leave the mystery cube behind a rickety-looking wooden tower.
bury the cube out in the middle of nowhere before landing in the spaceport.
hand the cube to the first beggar woman you see planetside. She accepts it without a word, and leaves.
drop the cube at a warehouse. Nobody comes around to collect it.
 "This has to be legal, or they couldn't post it to the job board," you remind yourself.
Your bank account immediately notifies you that the agreed-upon payment of <payment> has been deposited. You wonder how they knew.
leave the mystery cube in the second supplies cabinet you come across.
leave the mystery cube in an unscrewed air vent.
hand the cube to the third tourist couple you see on the station. They accept it without a word.
drop the cube into a copper trash can in the spaceport.
drop the cube into a laundry chute.
Mystery delivery to <planet>
Deliver a package to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Mystery retrieval
Retrieve a package from <stopovers>, then return to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
A team of <bunks> scientists needs some research notes analyzed at the facility on <stopovers>. Take the scientists there and then return them to <planet> for <payment>.
The scientists have been giddily discussing the results of their research during the entire trip. You're happy for a bit of peace and quiet as they make tracks for a prominent research lab to have the results analyzed. You prepare for the return journey to <planet>.
You bid goodbye to the scientists and accept your payment of <payment>.
The crew of the science vessel <npc> requests an escort to <stopovers> where they plan to study some unusual phenomena. Escort them there and then return them to <planet> for <payment>.
The <npc> lands alongside you and teams of scientists wearing crisp white lab coats and serious-looking boots and gloves descend on the test site with all manner of exotic equipment. As they take their measurements, you prepare for the return journey to <planet>.
You touch down on <planet> and make your way to the conference hall at a grand university. The provided credentials gain you access and you set up the recording equipment at the back of the room.
The panelists are electrifying, speaking eloquently on a variety of cutting-edge topics in the sciences and humanities. The experience leaves you feeling remarkably optimistic about the future of humanity here in the stars.
You transmit the video to your contact on <origin> and receive your payment of <payment>.
Record an academic conference on <destination> for professors who cannot attend. Credentials and recording equipment will be provided. Payment is <payment>.
collect the package from a secure baggage counter
take possession of the package from a security desk
in a quiet part of the spaceport.
near your landing site.
It is a large box on a built-in secure antigrav trolley.
It is a small box with a complex, electronic combination lock.
It is a soft but tightly wrapped package that makes a disquieting sound if you squeeze it.
As instructed, you deliver the package to
the reception counter of a technology firm.
a bored-looking spaceport security officer.
an elaborate curiosities store.
a plainclothes officer who receives it with minimal ID confirmation.
an old lady waiting on a bench.
another ship captain waiting on the docks.
Secure delivery to <planet>
Deliver a secure package of supplies to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
A young agent in the logistics division of Deep Security, he vouched for your increased job opportunities after you helped him out.
As you turn to leave a food stand in the spaceport, a rather young man in activewear waves you over to a bench off to the side of the main drag.
	(Go over to him.)
	When you go to ignore him he gives a quick, sharp, whistle and briefly flashes a Deep Security badge at you. He immediately covers this with a friendly wave for any nearby eyes, but it is clear that he won't be ignored.
	When you approach the bench he says, "Hello captain. Please, have a seat and allow me to take a moment of your time."
	His manner is very rehearsed, but he seems quite intent and assured in his request.
	"Sure. Who are you?"
	"Sorry, but I'm busy right now."
	"To be clear, I'm here to thank you, if that helps." he says.
	"Oh. What is it?" (Sit down.)
	"Sorry, maybe next time."
	As you sit down, the man smiles at you before directing his attention back to those passing by as he speaks. "My name is Wayde, Agent Wayde if you will. Don't mind the title though, I... well I work in the logistics division for Deep Security. You've transported a large number of secure packages recently, and several of them were mine."
	"If it pays, it pays."
	"Ah, yes."
	"Do all the secure packages belong to Deep Security?"
	"Oh no, plenty of tech businesses and wealthy individuals use the same secure package shipping channels. We do monitor all of them though just to make sure our own channels don't get compromised by something ill-advised... or illegal." He shrugs, giving you a measured look.
	"Well, I looked at your record and it seems you've done quite a lot for the Deep, and you're well-regarded. We like to keep a list of pilots that we can call on if we need something delivered with either urgency or discretion, and it seems like you qualified. You passed the background check at any rate.
	"So at any rate, I'm authorized to give you a one-time offer to join that list. Don't worry, I'm not asking anything of you right now."
	He stops keeping an eye on passers-by for a moment to look directly at you. "So, are you interested?"
	"I'm willing to help."
	"Sorry, but I don't think I want to get that involved."
	"You said 'at any rate' twice."
	His expression twitches slightly but he carries on with a chuckle. "Er, good catch. The question stands though."
	"Excellent," he says, standing up and stretching as if concluding a friendly conversation. He turns back to you with a smile, "I'll add you to the list as soon as I get back to the office then. Your ID will also let you see which packages are ours specifically too. Oh, and again, thank you!"
	Agent Wayde appears to flick a subtle salute your direction, or perhaps merely tips an imaginary cap. "Good day, captain. I look forward to working with you in the future."
	With a quick motion he flicks his hair back out his eyes and jogs away, sending one last wave your direction just before he turns a corner and disappears.
Deep Security delivery to <planet>
Deliver a Deep Security package to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Transport consultants to <planet>
Julie and her assistant missed their transport and need to reach <destination> by <date> in order to make several important business meetings..
Strolling through the spaceport, you are suddenly accosted by a young and breathless woman. "Please, Captain," she wheezes, "I'm so glad I caught you."
	After drawing in a deep breath, she stands up straighter and gestures to someone some distance away. "Captain, I'm sorry, but my colleague Julie and I are in dire need of urgent transport. Can you help?"
	As she catches her breath some more, her older colleague hustles over, bags in tow.
	"Sure, I'd be glad to help."
	"Where do you need to go?"
	"Why is it so urgent?"
	Julie holds out her hand in greeting. "Apologies, let's do this properly. My name is Julie Gillar. My assistant and I were held back with our duties and missed our booked transport. We're in dire need of passage to Valhalla for several important business meetings, but unfortunately everything is booked up for the next five days straight, and that's just not acceptable to my employer."
	"Who's your employer?"
	Julie furtively glances at the people nearby. "Well, I have a few employers actually, but at the moment, indirectly, Deep Security."
	She leans in slightly closer and lowers her voice. "We have access to their list of trustworthy pilots for emergencies. You'll be paid quite well."
	"I'm sorry, but I really can't help you right now."
	"Lead right on then," says Julie. You point towards your ship, and the women move to board it.
A consultant who worked with Deep Security. She requested emergency transport from you and showed you how to make yourself available to future consultants.
Julie and her assistant are model passengers the entire journey. As she prepares to disembark, she thanks you for your assistance. In addition to transferring <payment> into your account, she helps you change your job board preferences with the local spaceport agencies to make yourself available for business passengers consulting with Deep Security.
	"Thank you Captain <last>, you've been most helpful. Do keep an eye out in the spaceports around here though. Deep Security is notorious for keeping us longer than we're booked for. There's often someone stuck and in need of rapid transport off-world."
In accordance with the lodging request, you
Despite the short notice, you
meet the <passengers> at their hotel accommodation
collect the <passengers> from the security station
fish the <passengers> out of a seedy bar
rescue the <passengers> from some overbearing companions
in a quiet part of the spaceport
on the other side of town
in a raucous quarter just outside the port
and escort them on board.
The consultants thank you as you deliver them to their destination.
You find out only afterward that they left behind a soiled pair of boots in one of your cabins.
Afterward, you find a tie left hanging on one of your ship's door handles.
Later, you find some crumpled documents left onboard and wisely tip them into the ship's incinerator without looking at them.
Your bank account soon notifies you that the agreed-upon payment of <payment> has been deposited.
Transport Deep Security consultants
Transport <fare> whose schedules have been ruined by Deep Security to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Rush Deep Security Delivery
Deliver a Deep Security package to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man approaches you and flashes a Deep Security ID. "Greetings Captain <last>. We need someone to deliver this to <destination> by <date>, taking the most direct route possible."
Rush Deep Security Consultants
Deliver <bunks> Deep Security consultants to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a harried man approaches you, informing you that <bunks> Deep Security consultants, including himself, are in need of urgent transport to <destination> by <date>, leaving no time for stopovers.
Passing through the spaceport you see a sizable group of people waiting on a lottery draw. You hear a whoop of success, and your attention is drawn as one of them wins a moderate sum in a 12th division win. It's one or two day's worth of standard pay.
	It's difficult not to pity them as they immediately buy more tickets with the whole value.
A roadblock interrupts your path as you make your way towards the city, forcing you to slow down as you pass by, able to see what the commotion is about. Police wave past car after car coming from the other direction, looking into the vehicles until one gets pulled over to the side, causing police to briefly halt all traffic movements. The driver seems distressed, refusing to open the back even when he is being detained; his face goes pale when a little girl is found inside.
	You're not sure how to feel about this when the police wave you off, blocking your view from the scene.
As you wander the spaceport with a snack, waiting for your ship to be refueled, you pass a local souvenir shop and poke your head in to kill a little time. You see a decent looking mug with the text "<origin>" printed underneath an attractive, stylized representation of the spaceport you are presently standing in and pick it up to see how it feels. The handle is solid, not too small for your fingers, and the lip of it looks like it would be comfortable to drink out of.
	Two young adults wander into the aisle just a couple of meters away, conversing in a language that you don't understand, one that is perhaps local to the Deep. They're cooing over an item they've found, but when one flips it over to look at the price tag, there is an immediate exchange of looks and expressions that does not require translation. The item ends up back on the shelf with a giggle and a head-shake.
	Curious, you turn over your own mug and see that it is indeed at least five times what you would expect to pay for a mug, even a good one: 50 credits. Still, it is certainly a novelty...
	(Buy the mug.)
	(Put it back.)
	You roll your eyes and put it back. Some experiences really are universal.
	You purchase the mug on an impulse. At least you can ditch your other one with a chip in it.
	Curious, you turn over your own mug, and when you spot the 50 credit price tag your heart sinks. You could never afford such an expensive mug. You put it back and walk away while pondering your financial situation.
You can throw it in a pinch, you guess.
The skies pour down onto the world below, weeping together with the crowds as a plain but stately coffin is carried slowly from a void deck. Rhythmic wailing blends with the susurrant rain, filling the air as the coffin is followed closely by procession of mourners that look to be an extensive gathering of family. Even as it is placed into the van they do not leave the departed, a number of their hands placed on it as if pushing the person toward their final resting place. The two foremost mourners, a woman and a young man, climb in and take their seats next to it. Somewhere nearby, music begins to play as the vehicle slowly moves off.
	You wonder how well known the person was before they died as those remaining finally turn away from the van receding into the distance and begin to file past some discreet attendants you hadn't noticed at first, accepting slippers for their bare feet before boarding the buses waiting to take them after the van.
The smell of burning metal fills the air as you walk down the uncrowded streets of the factory town near the spaceport, keeping away from the arterial supply route directly feeding the port and its hangars.
	Despite the distance and absent traffic though, it is far from quiet. Several factory buildings make discernible thrumming noises, and grinders echo amidst the silence as you investigate. Turning a corner, you come across an alley running along a lengthy chain link fence line. Beyond it, you can see a throng of men cutting away at a spaceship. Parts regularly fall to the floor, the workers apparently heedless of those below.
	Even as you watch you see a hull plate swinging dangerously above a workers head.
	(Call out a warning.)
	(Leave them be.)
	You call out a warning and most of the men pause to look at you, the hull plate swinging gently as the holder of the offending grinder squints in your direction. One of the older men, who you now realize was at least somewhat overseeing the activity, steps forward and flicks his hands at you in a shooing motion. "Oi you, piss off. We've got our safety supervisor, we don't need your nose in our business."
	(Challenge the claim.)
	You point out that what you were seeing did not look at all safe, supervised or not, and the man glances around briefly before huffily making his way over to stand opposite you behind the fence. "Look stranger," he says, "work here is hard to find. For those working here, we don't have the time to spare. But the pay is good and we can at least feed our kids. Sure, some people get a few scrapes and bruises, but no one has died on my watch, and Rik only lost his smallest finger. If you feel the need to watch then fine, stand around, but leave us be, okay? There ain't no one around here that'll care what you have to say anyway."
	He looks you dead in the eyes, and once he is sure you understand his message he stomps back over to his crew, who continue their work. You watch them cut the dead ship apart until its pieces completely fill the trailer they have with them, before they proceed to haul the parts away to a factory in the distance.
	You turn and depart. A moment later you hear a clatter and a shout, but when you look back no one appears to have been injured.
As you move about the spaceport, you can't avoid the terrible smell. It's like a trash fire, but you can't see any sort of smoke.
	(Ask around.)
	You ask one of the locals who doesn't look too busy. They sadly inform you that there's been a bumper banana crop, but unfortunately other wealthier worlds had a bumper crop at the same time, and there's nowhere to either sell or store a significant excess. Distressed farmers are burning the excess fruit to make fertilizer for the next season, the wind has carried the smell all over town.
	You leave the mysterious smell to the locals and continue on your business.
Pausing to consider a restaurant for your dinner, you notice a local worker with a small handful of credits eagerly eyeing the menu. His clothes are neatly worn and look freshly brushed, but it's impossible not to notice the dirty marks and stains that haven't washed out. The man undeniably seems nervous, and he looks at the formal dining layout with an obvious lack of familiarity. Looking at the menu yourself, you realize that while the prices are very affordable for you, they would've been unreachable before your career change.
	(Offer to pay for the man's dinner.)
	(Silently pity the man.)
	(Smile at the man.)
	You smile at the man and reflect on the value of small achievements. He catches your smile out of the corner of his eye and gives you a hesitant but friendly wave back before you go about your business.
	You enter the restaurant and catch the man's attention, offering to pay for his meal.
	He recognizes you as a pilot and frowns, before telling you where you can stick that offer in colorful terms. As you walk away, you think about what your reaction would be if a much wealthier individual pitied you by paying for your dinner.
	You pity the man who has to work a full month to afford this and continue on your way.
Visiting the Paradise spaceports is always an interesting experience for someone from abroad. Nowhere else is class such an ingrained component of daily life. You find yourself noticing people who seem to be invisible to most of those going about their business, but they never catch your eye. They always appear to be doing their utmost to avoid notice.
	You haven't noticed children that look poor here in the past, but on this occasion you spot one as he knocks over a mop and bucket... right in front of a businessman and his family rolling their bags through the spaceport. You've never seen someone go so deathly pale as the cleaner, the boy's mother, who scurries to fix things before the man even draws a breath.
	A pair of security officers appear almost immediately, before you could intercede one way or the other, as the man and his family begin to complain. One officer provides assurances as the other supervises the cleaner, who quickly hurries her child out of harm's way.
On a whim, you decide to dine in at a restaurant well clear of the busy spaceport. You swiftly find yourself searching up a list of delicacies on a physical menu as people stream past the window by your booth, each looking drained from the long work day. Meal soon ordered, you continue watching the crowd until it arrives, a local version of a katsu don and dig in.
	The place is quiet, perhaps a little early for the dinner rush yet, and you are halfway through your meal when a waiter stops beside you, coughing to catch your attention.
	"May I help you?"
	"What do you want?"
	"Sorry," he says, grabbing the edges of his shirt. "But... may I ask... what's it like to see the stars? To visit other worlds?"
	"Most worlds are the same or worse than here."
	"The stars are prettier under an atmosphere."
	"It's an adventure, but not for the faint of heart."
	"Oh... I've never seen any pilots, so I never got to ask," he says, slightly dejected. "Thank you very much for telling me though!"
	He goes back to his work, with a thoughtful expression of neutral satisfaction on his face.
The low rumble of "Tonners," heavy trucks for moving troops and supplies, rolling down the street causes heads to turn and look at the blocky yet imposing vehicles slowing to a stop. The driver and the commander of the foremost vehicle have their eyes on the road, watching out for any traffic hazards that might pose a risk to either the vehicle or their support.
	The troops within the back of each tonner, on the other hand, are making small talk, the camo on their face smearing off in the heat. One of them points at you, saying something that garners him a groan from his peers, and you decided that you probably don't want to know what he said.
A group of children waves at you as you step off your ship, marveling at the spacecraft on display as their teachers try and fail to hold their attention. You can see the fading of their uniform colors from afar as their group walks past, yet none of them look one bit displeased. While you make your way into the spaceport itself, you wonder how many of them may eventually own their own spaceship and fly across the stars.
With an annoyingly long stopover having encouraged you to do a little exploring, you rent a car for a short drive around the immediate area. Later, as you pull the car into the designated return parking lot, the unexpected sound of large hydraulic motors draws your attention. You watch as a massive turret lifts up from behind a nearby barricade and turns toward the sky, its single cannon poised to fire at seemingly nothing.
	Looking around for some form of explanation you find a plaque placed conveniently nearby dedicating the turret, and five others like it, offering protection and discouraging piracy until relatively recent years. You can't help but wonder how well the turrets would do if they were to be actually used again.
Smog fills your windscreen as you make your descent, trying and failing to see anything more than a few meters in front of you. The autopilot systems show solid green across the full range of indicators though, and traffic control has confirmed a lock.
	(Land on autopilot.)
	(Return to orbit.)
	You let the craft perform the landing, staring blankly at the haze until it clears.
	On the ground, you see the cause, fields upon fields of plantations burning. You see a crowd of mostly farmers blocking off a smaller group of firefighters, arguing and trying to stop them from putting out the flames as planes fly overhead, dropping water and retardants wherever necessary.
	You recall seeing something like this years ago, of farmers burning their crops to make the land fertile, and how bad the air was for months.
	Unwilling to trust landing blind into an unknown situation, you return to orbit and rejoin the spaceport processing queue. One day of delay is a worthwhile price to pay for surety.
The smell of burning smoke permeates the air as you step off your craft, causing you to rush towards the nearest shelter, coughing along the way. Once there, you find people shouting and rushing about to get tape plastered onto the windows. No one seems to have noticed your arrival and none give an explanation.
	"Hey! What's happening? I can help!"
	(Look for someone not in motion.)
	You seek out a pregnant lady sitting on a chair, a mask worn as she explains: "A large fire has sprung up nearby, and the wind is fanning it towards the spaceport. Might have been some fool playing with fire, or some pirate sending a message to a local. We don't know, could be anything around here really. We're hunkering down and hoping it'll burn out before it does too much damage."
	"I have a ship out there. Let me help."
	Her eyes widen and she looks around, sharply catching the attention of one of the many people hurrying about.
	A young man who looks suspiciously like he might've been air traffic control twenty minutes ago glances at you and skids to a stop. "Oh, you're a pilot! Can your ship help?"
	The dock-hands scramble to get the firefighting equipment onto your ship after your proclamation, instructing you to drop the retardants onto the perimeter of the fire. You barely manage to remember what every button does before the Air Traffic Controller clears you to depart, navigating your craft towards the fire.
	The raging fire flares like an inferno, throwing up black smoke in deep billowing waves as you approach. As you drop the retardants, making sure to keep your speed low, animals scramble towards safer grounds. You try to make sure you've not emptied right on top of them each time as you go back for another batch.
	Hours later, you look at your handiwork, a long line of red keeping back the flames as the fire starts to smother out. You radio your progress and receive a cheery response, thanking you for your help.
As you land on the pad, you note a general lack of presence around the spaceport. No one has scrambled to hook up your ship, nor has anybody else acknowledged your arrival. Instead, when you leave your ship, all you find is a note within the spaceport detailing where their "overlords" can find their yearly tribute.
	You decide against finding out where the inhabitants went.
In a strange set of instructions, the Air Traffic Controller has you punch in a set of coordinates, taking you close to a massive military base on the way to the landing zone. You let the autopilot take over as you watch the view off the cockpit window, hoping the turrets in the base won't shoot you out of the sky.
	From where you are watching, you see a single woman standing within the parade square, a hand raised like she's looking at her watch. Seconds pass before she raises her other hand and gives a thumbs up to whoever's looking at her. Suddenly, a loud siren sounds out across the base that is audible even in your ship as it passes by at reasonable height. You watch as soldiers drop everything they're doing, some rushing into buildings while others run toward armored vehicles. Within minutes, the base's vehicles are rolling towards the parade square whilst soldiers in full gear run to assemble within the square in neat rows.
	You aren't sure whether what they were doing was scheduled, or if it was in response to your flight.
The sun has already set when you walk out of the spaceport, trying to find a nearby restaurant to sample their wares. Looking around, the only source of light comes from the building you just exited, a beacon within the sea of darkness.
	Choosing a random direction, you decide to walk down the quiet street, taking in the sights. You are interrupted as two men rush from an alley, pushing past you as they go. Before you can respond, you see a woman run out, clothes in disarray as she gives chase to the two men to no avail. Belatedly, you realize that they were holding a purse, long after they've disappeared, melting into the blackness beyond.
You blink in surprise as you enter the spaceport, watching throngs of people pushing their way through the human chains of queues wrapped around the commercial area. You scan your surroundings and notice advertisements upon advertisements of vacation locations, all at an absurdly high discount. Yet despite their vastly reduced prices, the advertised holidays still cost such large sums that a younger you could never have justified such expense.
As you walk past a number of ships and crew going about their work in the spaceport, a small gathering in front of a Shuttle catches your attention. A young woman wearing a rather cheesy pilot uniform is in the midst of a little group of people all celebrating together. As you pass by them, a man standing on the top of a ladder breaks a bottle of Champagne on the (clearly not new) ship's hull. A loud cheer erupts from the group, earning an embarrassed blush from the young woman.
	(Take a closer look.)
	(Shout well wishes as I pass by)
	(Ignore them, I have more important things to do.)
	You hurry past the rowdy group, annoyed by the disturbance.
	You hurry past the group as they quiet down. Taking advantage of the momentary lull, you shout "Good luck! You've got this!" toward them. They let out another cheer in response, with the exception of the young woman who buries her face in her hands.
	You approach the group as they quiet down, noticing a hint of anxiety in the air.
	"Nothing quite like buying your very first starship," you say over their chatter. The celebration goes quiet as they turn to see who interrupted their little party.
	"It's certainly been an... experience," the young woman replies once you are in comfortable talking distance.
	"Have you got any big plans with it?"
	(Give some advice.)
	"So, who's the lucky pilot?"
	You gesture to the Shuttle and look around as if it should be anyone else.
	"Uhh... that would be me," the woman says, glancing around awkwardly.
	(Try to salvage the awkward situation.)
	(Get out while I can.)
	"I'm just messing with you, my psychiatrist doesn't think it's very funny when I do it to him either."
	"Oh," the woman says quietly, "that's... nice, I guess."
	You realize that you have made this random young lady quite uncomfortable by barging in with your input.
	"Well, good luck!" you say with a wave as you hurry away. You barely hear the quiet "thank you" over the burning in your ears.
	"Right now," she says with a sigh, "the only plan I have is to get rid of the massive debt that I'm in because of it."
	"The mortgage isn't so bad as long as you're willing to work hard," you say with a smile, "and there is no shortage of people in need of a ship and a good pilot."
	"I knew you could make a decent living with one, but is it really that easy?" she asks.
	"The work isn't easy, but finding a job is the least of your worries. I'm sure that you'll have this ship paid off in no time."
	You stay around and talk with the aspiring pilot for a few minutes, giving her tips and advice before stating that you have work to do. As you turn to leave, an older man places his hand on your arm, stopping you.
	"Before you go," the man says, "we weren't very sure about this whole 'pilot' thing at first, but it's good to hear that my little girl has made the right decision. Thank you for that."
	"It's the least I could do," you say before walking away.
The smell of burning gunpowder wafts about in the air as you enter a town square, watching as a body is rolled off of a raised platform. Cries and screams fill the air as a masked man drags a lady across the platform and onto the central dias, an old-fashioned pistol to her head as he asks her something you can't make out. Thankfully, the man doesn't shoot, taking his gun off her temple before subsequently knocking her out with his weapon.
	Moments later the small crowd allows him to depart opposite your viewpoint, without incident and without explanation. You aren't quite sure what to make of this scene as the bodies are swiftly dragged away.
You are passing through the spaceport when you see a young woman walking in your direction. Trailing behind her is a multitude of camera drones, each one marked with a logo consisting of two curves pointing inwards.
	(Wait for her to approach.)
	(Hope she doesn't notice me.)
	(Try to avoid her.)
	You take a hallway off to the side to evade her. Just as you think you've gotten out of sight, you hear a voice. "Excuse me!" You turn to see the reporter following you.
	As you continue walking, you hear her call out, "Excuse me!" Suppressing a sigh, you turn to face the reporter.
	As she gets closer to you, she smiles. "Hello Captain! Would you be willing to answer a few questions for our viewers?"
	"Sure, I wouldn't mind."
	"No, I'd rather not."
	The camera drones circle around you as she prepares for the interview. After a few seconds, she smiles at one of the drones and begins.
	"Welcome back. I'm here on <origin> reporting on the situation with the Free Worlds. I'm joined by a merchant captain currently between trips. Captain, what do you think of the ultimatum sent to Parliament?"
	"I think Parliament should reconsider and give the situation some thought."
	"Parliament made the right decision by refusing the demands."
	The reporter frowns. "Can you explain your answer for our viewers?"
	"The interests of every world should be considered, whether we agree or not."
	"The Free Worlds aren't represented well enough to gain traction through normal channels."
	"The Navy is hardly defending that territory, so taxes shouldn't be as much."
	"I would prefer to not answer."
	"I'm not sure that Parliament would agree with you, but I want to thank you for your answers, and for taking the time to do this interview!" she says.
	The drones dart back to follow her as she continues through the spaceport.
	The reporter smiles. "Can you explain that answer for our viewers?"
	"There are proper channels for presenting grievances, and this isn't one of them."
	"It's a very ungrateful thing to do when Parliament is the one protecting them."
	"We are fortunate that many people feel this way! Thank you for your answers, and for taking the time to do this interview!" she says.
As you take a break after a long journey and a longer-feeling landing procedure, you notice a group of people enter the pub where you're sitting, streaming in from the conference complex across the street. They vary in age, dress, and accent, but most have an identical badge dangling from a lanyard around their necks. You notice one badge that's been dropped on the floor, reading "Attendee - 35th Annual Pan-galactic Conference on Interstellar Microbial Genomics and Population Dynamics." The group takes their seats at a long table near to you.
	(Order a meal and listen in to their conversation.)
	(Find somewhere quieter to relax.)
	Fragments of conversation make their way to you through the din of the pub.
	Two of the younger attendees are looking a bit nervous. "I'm so glad to have my presentation over with. I was so worried about having to present on the first day, but now I can finally just relax and actually listen to the other talks!"
	"Oh definitely! I probably shouldn't even be here - I should really be rehearsing... Oh! Waiter, another beer, please!"
	"Got your slide deck ready for tomorrow?"
	"Yeah, but I'm still terrified. I hate public speaking."
	"Don't worry, you know more about your particular area of expertise than they do. You'll be fine once you're on stage! And besides, graduate school is one giant exercise in public speaking. Comfort comes with practice."
	Another scientist is rolling his eyes after a post-mortem of the day's events. "Is there some law I don't know about that requires every 'question' to start with 'I guess this isn't so much a question as a comment...'?"
	An exasperated academic is speaking emphatically to her friend about what you infer to be a presentation they both heard earlier. "I don't think the nucleotide evidence supports their hypothesis at all! Like, I know the proteomic data could be used to support their conclusion, but they're ignoring synonymous mutations!"
	(Order another beverage and continue listening.)
	(Finish my meal and leave.)
	The group's conversation grows louder by virtue of both passion for the subject as well as the influence of a few drinks.
	"Look, the analysis might be fine, but if they can't even be bothered to provide the version numbers for their analytical software, then it isn't reproducible and that's an automatic 'reject' from me."
	One person is looking slightly shell-shocked after considering what might have been. "Can you believe my computer crashed right before I had to present? Good thing I had backups. Two is one and one is none."
	A group seem to be discussing some other colleagues in the field who are, presumably, not present this evening. "Singh and Esterhazy are such arrogant jerks. Their work is okay, I guess, but not enough to justify their wannabe rockstar personalities!"
	"Sure, but they aren't just arrogant jerks, they're charismatic arrogant jerks. Charisma attracts good grad students to their lab, who produce good papers, who they put their name on. It's a positive feedback loop."
	Grant applications seem to be a common subject. "The Republic Medical Research Agency said my work is too theoretical, but the University of Chiron Department of Microbiology says it's too applied!"
	"That's a conundrum, alright. Maybe you could find some funding from industry? The Syndicate might be interested in your work."
	"Yeah, but I'm not sure yet if I'm willing to give up my academic freedom."
	(Finish up at my own pace.)
	(Settle my bill as quickly as possible and leave.)
	Two attendees compare gripes about job demands. "Teaching sucks. Between class hours, office hours, and preparing lectures, there's hardly any time left for research."
	"That's funny! Teaching undergrads is my one respite from grant-writing!"
	A sociable but exhausted-looking man is sitting back in his chair. "These conferences only last three or four days, but it always feels like it ages you a year."
	You leave after finishing your meal, reflecting on having overheard a slice of a life very different from your own.
	Upon entering the sprawling spaceport, you notice that a group of factory workers are talking to a captain. As you get closer, you see that the captain's flagship, a Shuttle that has seen better days, lacks a hyperdrive.
	"Where's your hyperdrive?"
	"How are you going to travel anywhere with that ship?"
	(Go back to your ship.)
	The captain laughs. "Most pilots are the adventurous type. Not me. I make a pretty decent haul just flying people from Earth to Mars and back. Occasionally I do trips to the Moon for tourists." You notice that she uses the archaic term for Luna. Must be a local expression.
	"Doesn't that get boring?"
	"Is there really enough travel within Sol that you can make a living off of it?"
	"You'd be surprised. There's a lot of people in this system after all, and a lot of those people have enough money to leave Earth but not enough to leave Sol. It's a nice niche I've carved out for myself."
	"For you, maybe. I can tell by your accent that you've done a bit of travelling from your home planet. I like staying closer to home, though. With all the instability in the galaxy - pirates, aliens, and who knows what else - staying in Sol keeps me safe. Call me paranoid, but being in a place where I don't have to worry about that is something I value." She eyes a ship to the side that's having its hull repaired. The damage appears to have been inflicted by a beam weapon.
	You say your goodbyes as you board your ships. Although you are both captains, the trajectory of your lives have taken very different courses.
You are on <origin>, home to the Free Worlds Conservatory where Ijs is on faculty as a professor. Would you like to visit him and see how he is doing?
	While looking Ijs up in the campus directory, you notice something else: Katya is listed in the directory too, as "Visiting Professor of Civics and Economics." You give Ijs a call and ask if he and Katya would like to meet up with you for dinner, and they readily agree.
	When you join them at the restaurant, Katya says, "It's really great to see you again, <first>."
	"Not to mention," says Ijs, "it's great to have an excuse to eat somewhere other than the student center for once. How has life been treating you, <first>?"
	"I miss the excitement of the work we did together, but other than that life is great."
	"It's kind of hard to adjust to civilian life."
	"I want to explore the rest of the galaxy, but apparently that part of the game hasn't been implemented yet."
	"I understand that feeling," says Katya. "But, just remind yourself, this is what we fought for. For peace. For a world where no one has to fear for their lives."
	"Tell me about it," laughs Katya. "I can hardly believe I'm now a professor. Or at least, acting as one. But after so much fighting, and so much time alone and imprisoned, for me it feels good to finally be able to relax, to let go of the idea that the galaxy will fall apart without me."
	"Whoops," says Ijs, "now you've done it, there goes the fourth wall."
	Katya laughs. "If you're so eager to explore the rest of the galaxy, <first>, maybe you should volunteer to help out with creating the stories to populate it. This is an open source game after all, and it would be a sad thing for it to remain the product of only one person's imagination."
	Your dinner arrives, and you spend a pleasant evening eating together and reminiscing about old times. Back in the days of the civil war, neither Katya nor Ijs were people who smiled or laughed easily. Now, however, they have an entirely different air about them, peaceful and contented. It's heartening to see that they, at least, have found a happy ending together after all the chaos you lived through.
	Suddenly you realize that around you, the restaurant workers are sweeping the floors and putting chairs up on tables: it's closing time, and you are the last ones there. "Well <first>," says Ijs, "it was good of you to stop by, and I wish you the best in your journeys among the stars. Give our regards to the others if you see them." You wish them well, and return to your ship.
As you're coming in for a landing on Bourne, you receive a message from Alondo. "<first>!" he says. "I just heard that you were in system. Want to meet up for a drink and talk about old times?"
	"Sorry, I'm busy right now."
	You meet up with Alondo at a local pub. He tells you that his life has continued to be quite full since the war ended and the Council was dissolved: he's been placed in charge of the Free Worlds diplomatic corps, whose main job appears to be to make sure all the individual planets feel like their concerns are being listened to. "It means lots of travel," he says, "and lots of fine meals with important people. And they're always interested to hear my stories from the war times."
	You tell Alondo a bit about what you've been doing since the war ended. "Of course," he says, "you're traveling the galaxy. I knew from the start you weren't the kind who would quickly put down roots on a single planet."
	Alondo goes on to describe some of the inner workings of the Free Worlds Senate, and the mutual defense arrangement that forms the backbone of the government. "For a while there," he says, "it felt like there was so much bureaucracy that we couldn't get anything done, but now it's finally starting to function in the way all of us imagined. Quite an honor to have had a hand in the birth of a new government."
	"Spoken like a true bureaucrat."
	"I really do hope the Free Worlds can live up to our original vision of justice and equality."
	"Fair enough," he says, "but I really do believe we've created a government here that is less prone to the inequalities that they're still struggling with in the Republic."
	"Me too," he says. "We've got a good start, but then again, so did the Republic, back in the day."
	He is quiet for a moment, and then says, "I guess that's why I'm still here in the thick of things, instead of just settling down somewhere and leaving public life behind. I don't believe society or government just naturally becomes good or stays good without effort. So I'm here to speak up when we start to stray from our original vision."
	You sit and talk with each other for quite a while longer, reminiscing about old times. Then, you wish him well in his work, and he tells you to stop by and say hello any time you're in the area. You head back to your ship.
When you land on <origin>, you head into the city to explore a bit and to find out if the Navy and the others who have come here after them have had any luck in unlocking the secrets of this place. Already, it appears that some of the empty apartments have become actual living quarters for people, and there are even a handful of shops opening up on the main street.
	In one of those shops, you run into Freya. "<first>!" she says. "It's good to see you again. I hear that Parliament named you an official war hero or something. Much better than being a wanted fugitive, huh?"
	"Yes, it's quite an honor."
	"Yes, it's hard to know what to do with myself now that no one wants to kill me."
	"Right. Just remember, none of it would have happened without me, okay? Not that I have any desire to be a hero; that sort of public attention would be pretty much my worst nightmare."
	"Well, I'm sure you can find something interesting to do," she says. "Go fight some pirates. Or become a business mogul and get filthy rich. Whatever floats your boat."
	"What have you found out about the Pug?" you ask.
	"Not much," she says. "The wormhole doesn't seem to lead to their real home; it's just another red herring. The real breakthrough, of course, would be if we could find some hints in the stuff they left behind about how to build more jump drives of our own. But so far, we can't even figure out how to create new hyperspace links where there wasn't one originally. I'm starting to think that those graviton transmitters we used were just one more game - a toy, not the real thing. Not what created the links in the first place, I mean, unless they were created by someone with the patience to wait a million years for them to work."
	"Have you found any other interesting technology?"
	"Any more hints about who the Pug were and what they wanted?"
	"Some," she says. "Everything they left behind is like, well... an educational toy. Like some absent parent left behind a super-advanced chemistry set for their kids to play with. That's how all the artifacts we find here feel - not like the real thing that the Pug would have used, but like a simplified model that they gave us to help us figure it out. Everything they left behind, I'm convinced they left intentionally, because it could teach us something they wanted us to know, while keeping all their true secrets secret. The rest of you moved on, and I'm still here playing their game."
	"Not much," she says. "This world - it feels like when you're visiting a friend's house, and they spent the whole day cleaning up for you. It's not like a person's home is when you drop by unannounced. Nothing's out of place. Everything that's lying out somewhere, is something they wanted you to see. There's some weird technology they left behind, but all of it is like toys, puzzles... I don't know, like an educational game they designed for us to play. The rest of you moved on, and I'm still here playing their game."
	"You sound frustrated."
	"You know, the war is over, you can relax if you want to."
	"I know, I know," she says. "I complain, but really there's nowhere else I would rather be. Even if everything we're discovering here is nothing more than what they intended for us to discover, it's still the most interesting work I could possibly be doing right now. So, don't feel sorry for me. Really."
	You talk for a while longer, and she tells you she'll be sure to be in touch if they ever get to the root of the Pug's motivation. "Until then," she says, "good luck in your travels. I hope the galaxy never runs out of ways to surprise you."
Would you like to stop by and see how Admiral Danforth is doing?
	Danforth is quite excited to see you. "Captain <last>!" he says. "So good to see you back up here in my neck of the woods again. It's funny, you'd think that with the war over they'd just dissolve the Oathkeepers, since the whole Republic is at peace with the Free Worlds and there's no longer any oath left for us to keep. But, the Oathkeepers became so well known for our role against the Pug and the Syndicate that now everyone wants to join our division."
	Danforth is quite excited to see you. "Captain <last>!" he says. "So good to see you back up here in my neck of the woods again. It's funny, you'd think that with the war over they'd just dissolve the Oathkeepers, since the whole Republic is at peace with the Free Worlds and there's no longer any oath left for us to keep. But, the Oathkeepers became so well known for our role against the Pug that now everyone wants to join our division."
	"Glad to see you're still in the thick of things, sir!"
	"What sort of work is the Navy doing now that we're at peace?"
	"Oh, you bet I am," he says. "I'll never retire from the Navy, you know. I plan to still be serving on the day I die."
	"Just the sort of work we all signed up for in the first place," he says. "Defending the defenseless, keeping the peace, helping silly novice pilots who run out of fuel."
	"Are the pirates giving you any trouble?" you ask.
	"A bit," he says. "We still have far too many pirates in this sector, in part due to the Free Worlds driving them out of the South. The pirates grew stronger and more bold as the war dragged on, when all our fleets were busy elsewhere, but now we're beginning to get them under control again."
	Then he leans forward and says, more quietly, "Of course, you and I both know the pirates aren't the main threat. Raven is off infiltrating Syndicate worlds even as we speak, and several of my other best intelligence officers, too. The Syndicate wants us to believe that they've weeded out all the rotten apples from their ranks, but we're keeping an eye on them, all the same."
	Then he leans forward and says, more quietly, "Just a heads-up that the Navy has their eye on the Free Worlds still. Just because a peace treaty was made doesn't mean you can keep your nukes forever."
	After you talk for a while longer, Danforth wishes you luck and sends you on your way. "I'll be in touch if we ever need your assistance in the future," he says.
Weapon Testing
A test ship with new weaponry is in orbit around <planet>. Fight and disable it (but do not board or destroy it!) and then land to give Barmy Edward feedback on its performance.
As you complete your landing procedure, you recall having come here to assist in some testing for new weapons, back in the thick of the war. Do you want to check in on Barmy Edwards, the lead engineer?
	You give your name to the receptionist, and she directs you to a hangar where you find Barmy Edward, who is working on a weapon that looks like a modified Plasma Cannon. When he notices you, he gets up from his work and shakes your hand warmly. "Ah, <last>. It's been too long! How fortunate for me! I'm actually just putting the finishing touches on a new prototype. You wouldn't be too busy to assist me in some practical testing, would you?"
	"I'm not sure about this. What would you have me do?"
	"Being a target for experimental weapons? Just tell me what you need!"
	"Not much out of the ordinary from our tests in the past," he replies. "You'll find a ship of ours in orbit that goes by <npc>. It's been fitted with a few of these new weapons. Your job will be to fight and disable it, tell us what you think of its combat capabilities, and transfer your ship's logs so we can analyze the fight."
	"Alright, I suppose for old times' sake I can help out."
	"Sorry, I just wanted to check in and see how you were doing."
	He turns to you and smirks. "We've recommissioned the ship from retirement, so it's not top of the line, but try to keep it in one piece for future use. Understand?"
	"Of course! I'll take care of it."
	"I see. Well, I'm sure we can find someone else up to the task. Regardless, Captain <last>, I assure you this new weapon vastly improves on the outdated Plasma Cannon. This'll put Kraz Cybernetics in the big leagues!"
	"How about we get out of here, <first>? My work is done for today, and I know a homely little bar that's only a short walk."
	"Of course. It's not like there's a war to worry about anymore."
	"Ha! Well, of course, the war kept all of us plenty busy." He leads you out of the facility while telling an anecdote that must be humor for an engineer.
You head to the hangar to meet up with Barmy Edward, and find him tinkering with the modified Plasma Cannon you saw when you first entered. "It runs much hotter, you see," he explains. "But the results are impressive."
	"Was that a plasma cannon? Or something else?"
	"It's not winning any damage records, that's for sure."
	"Heh, it's been a while since we've seen a good upgrade to the cannon," he says. "That was the Plasma Repeater. Of course, it wasn't easy to make a better iteration of something that countless fools have failed to improve on."
	"Well, you are one of the revered captains that drove off the Pug," he says. "The idea is that by shrinking the bolts of superheated plasma, we can offload many more bursts onto a target. The effects on said target result in faster buildup of heat and, of course, damage. Big ships will usually ward off these effects much longer than a smaller ship would, but that's always been a notable issue with the original design. Besides, the repeater is a hell of a lot more impressive."
	"That's a unique direction," you reply. "Are they available for sale yet?"
	"Thanks to you, it should be in stock in a few months," he answers. "I'm sure you're past the point where our weapons are useful, but then again, not everybody has a jump drive." He grins. "How about we celebrate with some drinks? I know a quaint little bar not far from here."
	"I have time; let's celebrate!"
	"I'll pass on that, but it was good checking in on you."
	You follow Barmy into the bar. Even with the smear of grease still on his face, he fits in with the crowd. You both stand at the bar and order your drinks. Barmy's order catches you off guard, and he notices your expression. "What? A man who works with his hands can't enjoy a drink with some age?" You chuckle, and you both tell stories of your early lives. He tells how he had some exciting adventures in his youth among the stars, but found his passion tinkering and finding ways to improve on outdated equipment.
	He's shocked to discover your origins on New Boston. "You're really from that backwater planet? I'm surprised you were able to escape the racket they have going on there. I was lucky to get out myself!"
	"Wait, you're from New Boston too?"
	"It wasn't perfect there, but at least it wasn't quite so noisy down on the ground."
	"Nothing like it is now. I've got the whole universe ahead of me!"
	"You wouldn't think to have met someone from your very own birth planet, eh?" He chuckles. "Small galaxy, I suppose."
	You both have a great time hearing of each other's early lives, but you eventually wrap up your visit after a long night of bouncing stories back and forth. You say your goodbyes and head back to your ship.
Smuggling to <planet>
Smuggle <cargo> to <destination> without being scanned or caught by planetary law enforcement. Payment is <payment>.
In addition to the fine, your illegal cargo is confiscated. The pirates won't be happy to hear about this.
Drug run to <planet>
Run <cargo> to <destination> without being scanned or caught by planetary law enforcement. Payment is <payment>.
Run <cargo> to <destination>. If law enforcement catches you, you will be fined 46,000 credits. Payment is <payment>.
Bulk smuggling to <planet>
Bulk drug run to <planet>
Highly illegal cargo to <planet>
Run <cargo> to <destination>. If you are scanned or caught by planetary law enforcement, the consequences may be severe. Payment is <payment>.
Run <cargo> to <destination>. If you are scanned or caught by planetary law enforcement, the consequences may be severe. You will need to land away from the spaceport or else you may get caught. Payment is <payment>.
Highly illegal drugs to <planet>
Wanted individual to <planet>
This wanted individual wishes to reach <destination> without being caught by local law enforcement. They also wish to bring with them <cargo>. Payment is <payment>.
Upon scanning your vessel, law enforcement notice the criminal that you have on board. Entering your ship to detain them, they find the criminal in the corner of one of the rooms of your ship, clutching their battle trophies and screaming "you'll never take them from me!" After a short confrontation, they carry the criminal out and leave you with a small fine. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
Your <passengers> insists that you land on the edge of the spaceport to avoid being seen. After you land, they pay you <payment> before quickly grabbing their things and leaving your ship.
Wanted individuals to <planet>
These <bunks> wanted individuals wish to reach <destination> without being caught by local law enforcement. They also wish to bring with them <cargo>. Payment is <payment>.
Upon scanning your vessel, law enforcement notices the criminals that you have on board. Entering your ship to detain them, they find the criminals busy scooping their credits into the airlock, hoping that no one can have them. The officers quickly detain the criminals and carry them off along with the rest of the credits, leaving you with a moderately sized fine. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
Your <passengers> insist that you land on the edge of the spaceport to avoid being seen. After you land, they pay you <payment> before quickly grabbing their things and leaving your ship.
Upon scanning your vessel, law enforcement notices the criminals that you have on board. Entering your ship to detain them, the criminals begin firing down the hallways with their customized weapons. Immediately met with tear gas, the criminals did not put up too much of a fight. The officers carry the criminals out and leave you with a moderate fine and a few laser marks in the halls of your ship. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
Upon scanning your vessel, law enforcement notice the criminals that you have on board. Entering your ship to detain them, they find them all passed out in their bunks rooms, having drank too much of the wine that they had brought with them. After carrying the criminals out, they give you a moderate fine and leave. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
Galactic criminal to <planet>
This criminal is wanted by every law enforcement agency in the galaxy and needs safe transport to <destination> with their <cargo>. The payment is high at an amazing <payment>, but transporting such a person could lead to a lot of trouble.
Law enforcement rush their way onto your ship through the airlocks, suited head to toe in armor and armed to the teeth. Your passenger is quickly made to surrender and is hauled off in cuffs. The officers consider detaining you as well, but eventually decide to minimize their paperwork by only issuing a fine. This doesn't help to establish your reputation as reliable, no-questions-asked transporter.
You land outside of the main city to avoid any chances of your passenger being seen. They grab their things and make their way off of your ship after paying you <payment>.
Transfer slaves to <planet>
A pirate on <planet> has bought slaves from a local warlord. Transfer these <bunks> slaves in secure cells to <destination> for <payment>. Slavery is punishable by death throughout the galaxy, so this may be a dangerous job to take.
Protection to <planet>
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to help them escape local law enforcement and reach <destination> by <date>.
Protect cargo to <planet>
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to escort them and their illegal cargo safely through law-enforced space to reach <destination> by <date>.
Protect ship to <planet>
The captain of the <npc> will pay you <payment> to escort them and their stolen vessel safely through law-enforced space to reach <destination> by <date>.
Navy near <system>
A Navy fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
The fleet has been eliminated. You can claim the bounty payment by returning to <destination>.
The pirates of <planet> gratefully pay you <payment> for eliminating the Navy fleet.
A large Navy fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
Syndicate near <system>
A Syndicate fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
The pirates of <planet> gratefully pay you <payment> for eliminating the Syndicate fleet.
A large Syndicate fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
Militia near <system>
A militia fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
The pirates of <planet> gratefully pay you <payment> for eliminating the militia fleet.
A large militia fleet near the <system> system has halted our raids. Destroy them and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
Competition near <system>
A small rival gang is causing trouble near the <system> system. Take them out and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
The pirates of <planet> gratefully pay you <payment> for eliminating the rival gang.
A large rival gang is gaining too much power. Their leader is currently near the <system> system. Take them and their escorts out and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
A small marauder gang is causing trouble near the <system> system. Take them out and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
A marauder gang is gaining too much power. Their leader is currently near the <system> system. Take them and their escorts out and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
Marauder Elimination
The pirates of the <system> system have grown dissatisfied with the actions of the ruling Marauder gang. Take them out and return to <planet> by <day> for a payment of <payment>.
The pirates of <planet> gratefully pay you <payment> for eliminating the ruling gang.
Merchants near <system>
A merchant fleet has been spotted near the <system> system. Join in destroying them and return to <planet> by <day> for a cut of the loot (<payment>).
The merchants have been eliminated. Return to <destination> for your cut of the loot.
After counting up the loot from the destroyed merchant fleet, you are given your cut. <payment>
A merchant fleet has been spotted near the <system> system. Join in destroying them and return to <planet> for a cut of the loot (<payment>).
Local Navy forces are attacking <destination>! Defeat them to defend anarchy!
The Navy fleets have been defeated. Return to <destination>.
Many locals of <planet> thank you and collectively pay you <payment> for helping to drive off the Navy.
Many locals of <planet> thank you for helping to drive off the Navy.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside: "We are under attack! <planet> is under attack by the Navy! We need every combat-worthy ship to join the defenses!" This could be an easy way to get yourself killed, and you can't even guarantee that you will be paid for your work.
	Local pirate forces are preparing to repel the Navy attack. You join them, and take off together...
Local Syndicate forces are attacking <destination>! Defeat them to defend anarchy!
The Syndicate fleets have been defeated. Return to <destination>.
Many locals of <planet> thank you and collectively pay you <payment> for helping to drive off the Syndicate.
Many locals of <planet> thank you for helping to drive off the Syndicate.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside: "We are under attack! <planet> is under attack by the Syndicate! We need every combat-worthy ship to join the defenses!" This could be an easy way to get yourself killed, and you can't even guarantee that you will be paid for your work.
	Local pirate forces are preparing to repel the Syndicate attack. You join them, and take off together...
Local militia forces are attacking <destination>! Defeat them to defend anarchy!
The militia fleets have been defeated. Return to <destination>.
Many locals of <planet> thank you and collectively pay you <payment> for helping to drive off the militia forces.
Many locals of <planet> thank you for helping to drive off the militia forces.
Suddenly you hear raised voices and shouting outside: "We are under attack! <planet> is under attack by the militia! We need every combat-worthy ship to join the defenses!" This could be an easy way to get yourself killed, and you can't even guarantee that you will be paid for your work.
	Local pirate forces are preparing to repel the militia attack. You join them, and take off together...
Cargo stolen from a merchant ship which has caught the interest of a pirate warlord.
Convoy near <system>
A merchant convoy has been spotted near the <system> system. A local warlord is interested in having the cargo on the <npc>. Plunder it and return to <planet> by <day> for payment of <payment>.
You land on <planet>, but you don't have the secret cargo! Return to the <npc> and bring the cargo back to <planet>.
The pirates of <planet> take the secret cargo from your cargo hold and pay you <payment>.
Assassinate a political target
A Free Worlds politician who is worrying local slave traders was spotted in their ship, the <npc>, in a nearby system. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Free Worlds. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may have escorts.
The target has been destroyed. Return to <destination> for your payment.
A band of slave traders thank you for eliminating the politician and pay you <payment>.
A Free Worlds politician who angered a pirate warlord was spotted in their ship, the <npc>, in a nearby system. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Free Worlds. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may be heavily defended.
The pirate warlord thanks you for eliminating the politician that threatened them and pays you <payment>.
A Syndicate politician was spotted passing through a nearby system in their ship, the <npc>. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Syndicate. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may have escorts.
A pirate warlord thanks you for eliminating the politician and pays you <payment>.
A Syndicate politician with plans that worry local pirate gangs was spotted in their ship, the <npc>, in a nearby system. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Syndicate. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may be heavily defended.
The target has been destroyed. Return to <destination> for payment.
A band of pirates thank you for eliminating the politician and pay you <payment>.
A Republic politician who is worrying local pirate gangs was spotted in their ship, the <npc>, in Northern space. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Republic. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may have escorts.
A pirate warlord thanks you for eliminating the politician pays you <payment>.
A Republic politician who is worrying local drug traders was spotted in their ship, the <npc>, in a nearby system. Assassinate them by <day> to send a message to the Republic. Payment is <payment>. Be advised that they may be heavily defended.
A band of drug traders thank you for eliminating the politician and pay you <payment>.
Travel with the Free Worlds militia to the <system> system and drive off the Navy fleet that is occupying the system.
The mood in the spaceport is solemn. No one has had time yet to count up the losses, on both sides of the battle, but it is likely that over a thousand lives were lost. And because the Navy is held in such high regard even here where Parliament and the Paradise Planets are viewed with disgust, many of the militia captains are almost as saddened by the loss of Navy lives as by the loss of some of their own.
	You find Tomek walking among the fleet, conversing with a large group of captains and crew members and assessing the damage they have suffered. When he sees you he says, "Captain <last>! How is <ship> holding together?"
	"She took a bit of a pounding, but I've patched her up."
	"Just fine. It'd take more than a few Cruisers to destroy the <ship>."
	"Glad to hear it," he says before returning to the crowd. "Listen! We need to press our advantage before the Republic has time to call for reinforcements. If we strike quickly, we could be able to retake Kornephoros from them. It's important to break the blockade on that system for the sake of trade with the rest of the galaxy. And on top of that, if you were not aware, Councilor Katya Reynolds was on Clink when the Navy took the system and needs to be rescued." You hear some chatter coming from the crowd as a result of this news; it seems like Katya's investigation on Clink was not public knowledge.
	"We have a large fleet of reinforcements coming in from the Rim," Tomek continues, "and a few ships here that are able to fight another battle. I need you all to take off, wait for the reinforcements to arrive, and then retake Kornephoros. If the Navy ships retreat, let them retreat. If they surrender, let them surrender. If they stay and fight, disable them if you can. Destroy them only if you must. Am I understood?"
	"Yes sir!" the captains respond in unison.
	"Then move out!" Tomek yells, prompting the captains and crew to scramble for their ships.
	Tomek returns to you after rousing the militia to action. "Still in this fight with us?"
	"Yes, sir. I'll move out immediately."
	"I wish it hadn't come to this."
	"We all do," he says. "No one wanted this. Not us, certainly not the Navy. But if they attack us to take our freedom, we must defend ourselves in order to keep it. Understood?"
	"Yes, sir. I'll prepare my ship for another battle."
There are still Navy ships patrolling overhead. Staying on <planet> while your allies are dying in orbit would be a very bad idea.
The last of the Navy vessels in orbit has been subdued. As you land, you find that several Free Worlds troop transports have already set down in the spaceport and corralled the remaining Navy officers into a small circle. You would estimate that there are several hundred Navy prisoners. Another transport lands, carrying more prisoners: the Navy troops who had been guarding the mines on Clink.
	For several hours, nothing changes: the Navy troops are huddled into a small circle, surrounded by guards. When lunchtime comes, some of the guards go to the market and fetch some of the vendors who sell meals out of carts there; they return with the carts and hand out food to the prisoners. Then, another transport lands and Tomek steps out.
	He pulls you aside and asks you, "How are things going here?"
	"Very quiet. They haven't given us any trouble."
	"The battle was brutal. I hope we don't have to keep doing that."
	"I hope so too," he says. "Maybe we can make a start in that direction right now."
	Tomek climbs up onto the hull of a nearby ship and addresses the prisoners. "Hello," he says. A few of the Navy officers respond, warily. "My name is Tomek Voigt. Our militia is very loosely organized, but I'm the one in charge of organizing it." That gets a few laughs from the Free Worlds guards. "As such, I am responsible for deciding your fate."
	At that, a hush falls over the crowd. "The Council has decided," he continues, "that any of you who gives us your parole, swearing to take no further part in fighting the Free Worlds, will be returned to Republic space. You will give us your word of honor that you will either seek reassignment in another part of the galaxy, or resign your commission."
	A few of the Free Worlds guards shout, "What?" But only a surprising few. The rest are nodding, seemingly pleased with the Council's choice. Tomek climbs down from the hull and approaches the prisoners, and you notice Alondo and Freya have joined him.
	One of the Navy officers stands up. "I'll take that oath," he says, "if you'll honor your part of it."
	Tomek takes the man's hands, looks him in the eyes, and asks, "Do you swear before God and these witnesses to take no further part in military actions against the Free Worlds?"
	"I do," says the officer. Several of the other prisoners stand up, and before long all but a handful have sworn the oath.
	After they finish, Tomek turns to you and a few other captains. "Emily, Marco, <first>, Sarah, please meet me in the spaceport cafe when you are ready." He walks off.
Prisoner Parole
Escort a fleet of transports carrying prisoners of war to <planet>. The temporary ceasefire will end on <date>.
When you have all gathered in the cafe, Tomek explains the situation to you. "Alondo has arranged for a one-week ceasefire to return the prisoners who have given us their parole," he says. "That gives you just enough time to transport them to New Tibet and return here. If you encounter Republic ships, do not engage them. Just drop off the prisoners and return. Any questions?"
	"No, I'm ready to go."
	"What should we do if they attack us?"
	"What will be done with the soldiers who didn't swear the oath?"
	"If you can, return here without engaging them. No point in losing more lives. Besides, the Navy are honorable and will respect the ceasefire, I have no doubt about that. Only if you linger will things become difficult for you. Now get going. Time is limited."
	"They will be transported to a penal facility on Bourne and cared for well, and if at any point they change their minds, they will be allowed to leave. Now get going. Time is limited."
You have reached <planet>, but you left part of your convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
You drop off the Navy prisoners on <planet>. Now, it's time to get back to Deep with your fleet before the ceasefire ends.
Return to Deep before the cease-fire ends.
Tomek seems very relieved to see you all back in one piece. "Thank you for your service," he says. "Please report to your local militia commanders for your next orders. Captain <last>, remain here."
	After everyone else has left the room, he tells you, "I'm sorry, but I've got some bad news for you. We've searched the entire outpost on Clink. No sign of Katya. The miners don't know what happened to her, but I'd say it's a safe bet that she's either dead, or a prisoner."
	"I wish we'd known that a few days earlier. We could have arranged a prisoner exchange."
	"I know," he says. "That's what a lot of our people are saying now. But what we did, a pure good-faith gesture with nothing demanded in return - we may come to be glad of that. My hope was to set a precedent, to shape the character of whatever conflict comes out of this, and I still think that was the right thing to do."
	"So, what do we do now?" you ask.
	"The Navy has had two crushing defeats," he says. "They will be hesitant to attack again until their numbers are much stronger. That gives us some time for diplomacy, to strengthen our position, and to look for allies, or at least sympathizers. Which is where you come in. I'm going to ask you to transport Alondo for a set of diplomatic missions. Meet us in the spaceport when you are ready."
The "Oathkeepers" are a regiment of Navy officers who were captured by the Free Worlds and paroled on the condition that they take no further part in fighting against the Free Worlds. They are led by William Danforth, a famous Navy admiral. Their stated mission is to protect the Paradise Worlds from the pirates who live on the anarchist worlds in the far north of human space.
Danforth is a famous Navy Admiral who is a folk hero throughout human space due to his fair and honorable behavior and his willingness to use his fleet to assist people in need, even when he has to go against Parliament's orders to do so. He is currently in charge of the Navy regiment who call themselves the "Oathkeepers."
When you land on <origin>, it seems that everyone in the spaceport is talking about a recent news story: the Navy has just announced the formation of a new regiment, called the Oathkeepers. This regiment is staffed mostly by prisoners you paroled from Kornephoros, who want to honor their oath to take no further part in the conflict against the Free Worlds. They will be headquartered on Farpoint, in the far north, to defend that region of space against pirate incursions.
	Furthermore, the leader of the Oathkeepers will be Admiral Danforth, an elderly admiral who is something of a folk hero and is spoken of with admiration and respect even here in Free space. Although he was not one of the paroled prisoners, he has become an outspoken advocate for a diplomatic solution to the Free Worlds conflict.
	It's heartening news, but you also can't help noticing how many people in the spaceport are talking now about how the Navy really is full of "decent" and "honorable" people, and it's a shame that the Free Worlds had to fight them. By responding to your generous gesture with one of their own, the Navy has won a definite political victory, and given that they needed to defend the North anyway, it is a victory that cost them very little.
Syndicate Diplomacy
Transport Alondo Gruyere to the Syndicate headquarters on <planet>.
Alondo has a brief chat with the spaceport controller and manages to get you permission to land.
Alondo contacts you and says, "Captain, you're going to need a bunk free for me. Do you have space?" You do not, so you should complete or abort another mission to make room for him, then return here.
You meet Tomek and Alondo in the spaceport. "We've decided that now would be a good time for diplomatic missions," says Alondo. "We've proven that we are a force to reckon with, but also that we are open to working for peace. We'll start with the Syndicate, as a relationship with them would be a significant advantage for us."
	"Do you think they will fight on our side?"
	"Wait, isn't the Syndicate an evil megacorporation?"
	"Certainly not," says Alondo. "Unlike us, the Syndicate has few grievances with the Republic. While the Navy does not patrol the Core, the Syndicate funds their own private security for the region. I don't see what they'd gain from joining the fight on our side. But they are very interested in maximizing their profits, so I pray we can arrange to purchase ship materials from them. And if nothing else, I pray they at least will promise not to hire out their security forces as mercenaries to the Republic."
	"Well, they do have a long record of environmental and human rights violations. But they are also the single largest employer in the galaxy, and a main reason for the stability the Republic has enjoyed for the last few centuries. The Syndicate is also not a monolith. There are at least some good people within the Syndicate. I... used to know one," Alondo says with some apprehension. "So, I wouldn't call the Syndicate 'evil.' It's more complicated than that."
	"Reaching Syndicate space could be difficult once the Navy has time to regroup," says Tomek. "This may be the last window of opportunity we get for a while to meet with them in person."
	"I have plenty of contacts in the Dirt Belt," says Alondo, "so if a planet won't let us land, we can just hail them and I should be able to negotiate with them. In fact, I'm hoping that a side effect of this trip will be to judge how much sympathy we have in the surrounding systems."
	"Sounds good! Let's do it!"
	"Why meet in person? How do we know this isn't a trap?"
	"What should we do if we encounter Navy ships?"
	"While data moves through the hyperspace network faster than ships, having any substantial back and forth would take longer than if we simply showed up in person. The Syndicate is also often driven by greed, and we're worth more as customers of the Syndicate than as prisoners of the Republic. If nothing else, showing up in person is a sign of good faith. It puts our trust in the Syndicate, trust that they'd be unlikely to betray given the risk they'd see us taking simply to meet with them."
	"I hope you're right! Let's get going."
	"I would suggest evading them," Alondo says. "From a diplomatic perspective, I'd rather let them live, but Tomek might think otherwise."
	"No," Tomek responds. "I agree. Just as you say there are good people within the Syndicate, there are good people within the Navy as well. It's one thing to fight during a battle, but we're not looking to invade Republic territory, only pass through it. Save your energy and only defend yourself if you must."
	"Okay. Let's get going!"
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Alondo hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Tarazed Diplomacy
Transport Alondo Gruyere to <planet> to negotiate with Tarazed Corporation.
Katya was on Clink when the Navy invaded the Kornephoros system, and was taken captive by them and imprisoned as a war criminal.
Samuel Remington is the Syndicate's head of public relations, and he seemed to help get the Free Worlds a better deal with the Syndicate than they might have otherwise received. He and Alondo seem to have a history together, although it is one that neither will discuss in detail.
As you land, Alondo says to you, "Let me do the talking, please." You are met almost immediately by two men in suits, who escort you to a room in the Syndicate headquarters. Six men are sitting on one side of a large mahogany conference table; they gesture for the two of you to be seated on the other side.
	You introduce yourselves. "Thank you for meeting with us," says Alondo.
	A man who appears much younger than the others introduces himself as Samuel Remington and responds. "Hearing that representatives of the Free Worlds were on their way was certainly a surprise. I apologize that CEO Korban could not meet with us today. He sent me in his stead to ensure that this meeting was handled with the upmost delicacy. So, what might it be that brings you here?"
	"We would like to secure the purchase of construction materials for new ships," says Alondo. "As well as ask that the Syndicate refrains from joining the war as mercenaries. Our grievance is with the Republic, not the Syndicate."
	"We are always open to new business opportunities," says another man, Lopez, "although negotiating with known terrorists is... distasteful." He leafs through a folder of papers, pulls one out, and slides it over to you. It is a picture of Katya, and the caption under it reads, "Terrorist ringleader captured in raid on Kornephoros system." It is dated a few days after the Navy's initial assault, before you retook the system from them.
	(Let Alondo handle this.)
	(Try to explain what Katya was doing in that system.)
	Alondo has turned very pale, but finally he says, "They have not announced this publicly."
	"No," says Lopez, "they have only shared it with certain... trusted friends of the Republic."
	Alondo says, "They haven't announced anything because they know she was innocent. She was hunting the terrorists, not helping them."
	"She was there trying to find the terrorists. She wasn't one of them," you say.
	Alondo side eyes you, looking very pale.
	"That may be true," says a third man, Badenoch. "I am willing to believe you were hunting the terrorists, because I am aware through my own sources that the Free Worlds secured the services of a certain Ijs Springborn, whose skills would be well suited to such a hunt. And who might not be in as safe a position today if you had not given him a reason to leave this sector of space, where he is... universally despised. Regardless, we cannot sell supplies to enemies of the Republic."
	"Piracy is on the rise in the Dirt Belt," says Alondo. "And I know you have customers there. Such as the Tarazed Corporation. If we can count you among our friends, we could ensure that your convoys reach Tarazed unmolested."
	"And you would no doubt immediately purchase said supplies from Tarazed," says Badenoch.
	A much older man sitting next to him, Akihito, says, "Of course, such weapons would end up being bought at a significant price markup." He is grinning.
	"No," Remington says, surprising some of the other men at the table. "No markups necessary." None of the other men argue with Remington over this.
	You speak for a while longer, but Alondo manages to hash out a deal where the Free Worlds will defend any Syndicate ships they encounter within the Dirt Belt in return for a promise that the Syndicate will not serve as Republic mercenaries and will not prevent you from purchasing their equipment indirectly through Tarazed. In addition, Remington suggested that you might find some "extra goodies" among the Syndicate convoys heading to Tarazed specifically. You thank the Syndicate leaders, and begin the trip back to your ship.
	Alondo is silent. As you're about to leave the spaceport for the landing pads, you hear someone shout behind you. "No need to be a stranger, Gruyere. Can't stick around for a drink?" You turn to look at who it is, but Alondo keeps walking. You find Samuel Remington approaching, paying you no mind. "Are you still mad at me, Gruyere?" he asks.
	(Stand in Remington's way.)
	(Don't engage.)
	Remington stops a few paces past you as Alondo boards your ship. Remington shakes his head before looking back to you. "I guess a guy can't talk to an old friend."
	You take a step into Remington's path as Alondo boards your ship. Remington stops face-to-face with you. "What, a guy can't talk to an old friend?" he says while looking over your shoulder
	"He's clearly not interested."
	"You know Alondo?"
	"More than most," Remington says with a chuckle. "He was never one to show gratitude for gifts. I hope you enjoy the new toys in those shipments I just secured more than he does."
	"As if that's ever stopped me before," Remington says with a chuckle. "He was never one to show gratitude for gifts. I hope you enjoy the new toys in those shipments I just secured more than he does."
	"What new toys?" you ask.
	"You'll see," he says, turning back to the spaceport and leaving you.
	You join Alondo on your ship and find him solemnly staring out a window.
	"It seems like the negotiations went pretty well."
	"What was that all about?"
	"What do we do about Katya?"
	"Samuel and I have... a history. One I'd rather not discuss," Alondo responds. "Anyway, we must continue with our mission. Time for us to make a visit to Tarazed. Let's get going."
	"They did. Although it feels like it was almost too easy. Support from Samuel isn't too unexpected, but I'd have expected the others to fight him over squeezing us a bit more." Alondo pauses for a moment. "Anyway, we must continue with our mission. Time for us to make a visit to Tarazed."
	"I'll have to talk that over with the Council when we get back. But if she is a prisoner of the Intelligence Bureau, there is no way we can rescue her. Her only hope is that they will recognize her innocence. For now, we must continue with our mission. Time for us to make a visit to Tarazed."
Poisonwood Diplomacy
Travel to <planet> with Alondo Gruyere, to make one final diplomatic visit.
When you arrive at <origin>, you find that there are already some Syndicate ships here unloading cargo that must have been sent ahead of you. You catch a glimpse of some of the crates and see large amounts of ship materials, as well as crates of blasters, Proton Guns, and other Syndicate products.
	Upon contacting the Tarazed Corporation, you and Alondo are led into the Tarazed board room, which is different from the Syndicate one in two respects. First, it is much less fancy. And second, there are women present: unlike the notoriously misogynistic Syndicate, Tarazed is currently run by a female CEO, Emily Lane.
	"I'm pleased to welcome you here," says Emily. "It's nice to finally speak with you directly, Alondo. Many of us are sympathetic to your cause."
	"Thank you," says Alondo, "although for the time being the best way to support us may be for you to remain neutral in this conflict." He explains the negotiations with the Syndicate and the idea of Tarazed being a go-between for Syndicate supplies.
	"I don't like dealing with the Syndicate," says Emily, "but like yourselves, we could not build ships without the systems they manufacture. Of course, the materials we receive from Free space are equally valuable. But if we remain nominally a part of the Republic, they will have full access to this system, including searching incoming and outgoing freighters."
	"You receive weapons and ship materials all the time. As long as they don't know it's going to us, they shouldn't care."
	(Let Alondo do the talking.)
	"True," says Alondo, "but a Navy fleet here would be vulnerable to being cut off from Republic space, so unless they occupy the whole Dirt Belt, I do not think they would risk it."
	"Perhaps so," Emily responds. "Although I must ask what sort of strings you pulled to manage what you have. Shortly before you arrived we began receiving Syndicate supplies that we never ordered. Quad Blaster Turrets. Proton guns. Anti-missile turrets. Even atomic thrusters from the Deep, which the Syndicate does not normally sell. Is this all for the Free Worlds?"
	Alondo pauses. "I have... an old friend within the Syndicate. He was a part of the negotiations, and mentioned that there would be 'extra goodies' within the coming convoys. We haven't been on speaking terms for years, and I suppose this is his attempt to get back on my good side."
	"I doubt that supplies in these amounts are just an attempt at old friends trying to get back together," says Emily. "The Syndicate does not play games like this without having something to gain from it. I would suggest not taking this good gesture too highly."
	They continue talking for a while, and you leave well convinced that Tarazed is willing to support you and that the best way they can do that for now is by remaining neutral. There were questions raised about the intentions of the Syndicate, though.
	"Now," says Alondo, "I'd like to make one more diplomatic visit. The planet <planet> has insisted on remaining loyal to the Republic, even though they are deep inside our space. I'd like to meet with their leaders and see if they will reconsider joining us."
Return to <planet> with Alondo, to report on the outcome of your diplomatic mission.
As you are landing on Poisonwood, Alondo explains, "Three decades ago, this was a slave colony. The Navy was responsible for liberating them, and they still feel a deep debt to the Republic as a result. But even if they do not join us, we can maybe establish more friendly relations with them."
	Soon after you land, the governor of Poisonwood sends an aide to escort you to her office. The governor is probably in her late fifties, and as you are speaking the sunlight occasionally catches her face or arms at exactly the right angle to show the faint, criss-crossing lines of very old scars. She must have been one of the slaves who were freed by the Navy.
	As soon as you are seated, she says, "Now, I don't want to give you false hope. We will not be joining the Free Worlds."
	"Understood," says Alondo. "We've come primarily to assure you that the Free Worlds will never attempt to take control of a planet that has not willingly chosen to join us. But without our support, your world is isolated and vulnerable."
	"Indeed," she says, grimacing. They talk for a while, but it is clear she does not think her people would ever support even a treaty of neutrality with the "rebellion." Finally, she changes the subject. "Captain <last>," she says, "what do you believe is the greatest threat that humanity faces today?"
	"Corrupt government."
	"Powerful corporations and unbridled capitalism."
	"The return of the Alphas, or something like them."
	"Piracy and anarchy, like the pirates who dominated your world."
	"Alien invasion."
	She laughs. "A typical Free Worlds answer. I will confess, I am none too fond of Parliament, ordering the Navy to spend its time up in the paradise sector assisting snobby rich pilots who've run out of fuel instead of down here defending against the very real threats that lurk on the pirate worlds."
	"Since there is only one corporation in the galaxy that fits that description," she says, "I assume you are talking about the Syndicate. Any human organization can take on a life of its own, and act in ways that any of its individual members would consider immoral. That is a danger the Syndicate does face. but I find myself more concerned with certain threats that are closer to home."
	She seems surprised. "Not many in your generation would say that," she says. "Even here on Poisonwood, where we ought to know better, many of those who were born after the days of slavery think the Alphas are no more than a myth, a story that Parliament uses to justify maintaining such a large Navy."
	Alondo looks concerned. "I've heard the stories from the liberation of Poisonwood," he says, "but there was never any evidence. No photos, none of them captured. I thought it was just hype."
	She laughs. "Thugs. Children with no hope for the future. Petty criminals. The pirates are poorly organized, and their glory days are long past. But you are right, in a way, because those lawless worlds provide a hiding place for the few individuals who actually are a danger to our species. And that is the threat that weighs most heavily on my mind."
	She laughs. "You must watch far too many videos. The most powerful species in this galaxy are also the most peace-loving. Trust me, I should know. Here on the edge of human space, we receive... visitors, on occasion. They do not interfere in human events, but they came seeking information on a threat that concerns us both."
	"What sort of threat?" you ask.
	"Our world was enslaved for nearly a decade," she says. "Most of my childhood. We had been little more than an anarchist colony ourselves before that, though, so the Republic did nothing to aid us. Until the Disappearance."
	"What was the Disappearance?"
	"I was a teenage slave working in the factories at the time," she says. "Exactly the wrong age, as it turned out. One day the overseers informed us that all the eighteen-year-old girls had to have mandatory 'health checkups' that day. I won't describe what the 'checkup' involved, but it was bewildering and unpleasant. And nearly all those girls disappeared, that day. They never returned from the 'checkups.' Only a few of us were left behind. Most of the leftovers were girls who had been unlucky enough to already be pregnant at that age. Or lucky, as it turned out. But I didn't understand why they didn't take me."
	Alondo seems very disturbed by the story. "They were selling girls into prostitution?" he says.
	"That's what we assumed," she says, "but there were dozens of girls like me who were not taken, even though we were not pregnant. It didn't make sense. Anyway, somehow news of that event got off-world and not long after, the Navy came in massive numbers, destroyed the slaver fleets and liberated our planet. In the process, they tried to invade an underground facility up in the mountains, which is where they thought the girls were being kept. But the facility was rigged to self-destruct, and they never found out what had been going on inside the facility. No one inside it survived."
	"Did you ever find out why they let you go?"
	"My parents said it was because I was so willful and stubborn, too hard to control," she says. "But years later, we began to discover that all of us who were passed over had one thing in common. We were all infertile. Had been already, the day of the Disappearance. Which means that either a bunch of pirates had suddenly decided they wanted to leave behind their lives of crime and settle down and raise families... or those girls were being used as incubators."
	Alondo says, "I hear that was common during the Alpha wars. Alpha genetics were so unstable, they needed hundreds of test subjects to produce a handful of viable Alpha babies. Those were evil days."
	"Days that may yet return," she says. "Somewhere, maybe even nearby on Bloodsea or Greenrock or Albatross, the remnants of the Alphas may still be hiding. Creatures bred to be strong and clever and able to kill without a hint of remorse. And now that this sector of space is yours, the duty of defending against them becomes yours, as well. That is why I agreed to talk with you: to warn you of that reality."
	You and Alondo return to your ship with one more thing for the fledgling Free Worlds to worry about. "I guess now we should return to <planet> and report to the Council," he says.
You meet Tomek, Freya, and JJ at the spaceport, and the entire Council quickly convenes. Given that you were Alondo's transportation during his mission, you are included in the meeting. Alondo outlines the results of the diplomatic mission, which he believes has been a success. Upon hearing about the extra supplies heading to Tarazed, Tomek suggests increasing patrols in the Dirt Belt to the east to help defend Syndicate convoys while also moving supplies from Tarazed to various Free planets.
	"We're still healing from the last set of battles," says JJ. "An increased Free Worlds presence outside of our declared territory could be seen as a provocation."
	"No doubt it will, but we need to uphold our end of the bargain with the Syndicate if we want to keep them as a tentative ally," Tomek responds. "We also have our deal with Tarazed for them to begin selling some of their ships within our territory. Those ships won't do us much good if they're getting blasted to pieces by pirates before they even get here."
	"A deal with Tarazed for new ships? When did you make that?"
	"I'm willing to volunteer for escort duty."
	"No need," says JJ. "We have plenty of captains who are already assigned to escort duty. We may need you elsewhere."
	"Prior to when things went hot," says Tomek, "I saw to it that we could secure a supply line for new warships outside of our borders. Southbound may be a fine shipyard, but they alone can't supply us the warships we need, especially when the largest warship they build is the Bastion. Unfortunately, the Navy attacked before things could be finalized, and the outbreak of war has slowed things down, but Tarazed has assured us the deal is moving forward."
	"Don't forget that Tarazed is also our only supplier of fighters for Southbound's Type F Haulers," Freya adds. "Unless you count the Boxwing, but those don't help much in a fight."
	"There are a lot of moving parts at play in this conflict, Captain <last>," says JJ. "All we ask is that you stay focused on where we aim you, and you let us handle the finer details."
	After further discussion on the matter, the Council approves the increased patrols, although JJ remains somewhat apprehensive.
	"There is one other thing," Alondo says. "The Syndicate informed us that the Republic has Katya in custody, accused of terrorism."
	The news is a shock to everyone. "I had begun to worry that was the case," says Freya.
	"My contacts within the Navy have heard rumors, but I suppose this confirms it," says JJ.
	"Why have they not announced it publicly?" asks Tomek.
	"I suspect it's because they know she is innocent," says Alondo. "They say it is impossible to tell a lie to the Questioners, and in this case that will work in her favor."
	After further discussion, the Council eventually dismisses you as they move on to other topics that don't directly concern you.
	A while later, after the Council meeting is adjourned, Tomek approaches you and says, "Meet me in the spaceport when you are ready for your next assignment. Also," he gives you <payment>, "the Council has approved a bonus for you. Excellent work, Captain."
Early Warning Systems
Land on the abandoned planet <destination> and place sensors there to monitor Navy fleet activity in the system.
Freya contacts you and says, "<first>, you're going to need ten tons of cargo space for this next mission." You should return here after freeing up <capacity>.
You meet up with Tomek and Freya, who are looking over a map of the nearby systems. "This is a choke point," says Freya, pointing to the Wei system. "Any attack on us will come either through Wei or Lesath, and Wei is much more likely. And that also means that if we can monitor what is happening there, we will have advance warning of any attack."
	"And with us strengthening our patrols to the east, we'll need any advance warning we can get, even if only a single day." says Tomek. "Now, as you may know, the planet Hope is in the Wei system. It's a former colony that is now an ice planet. Our plan is to deploy a sensor network on Hope, tracking every ship in system. Freya designed the equipment, so she can explain how to deploy it."
	Freya explains where on the planet each sensor should be installed, and how to cover them in insulative shielding so their heat and energy signatures will be difficult to detect. "Once the network is deployed," she says, "you will begin receiving telemetry. A good way to test it is to make sure it is picking up your own ship. Any questions?"
	"No, sounds good."
Report back to Freya on <planet>.
You land on Hope, place Freya's surveillance rigs in the locations she specified, and fire them up. Telemetry starts coming in, and you verify that your own ship is showing up in the scans. However, they are also picking up an unidentified heat signature on another part of Hope. Do you investigate?
	(No, sounds risky.)
	You approach the location, flying low to avoid detection, and come upon a Navy Gunboat, landed on the planet. Some distance away from the ship, several figures in thick snowsuits are setting up some sort of equipment with lots of antennae. It seems that the Navy had the same idea as Freya, of using this world as a listening post. Your sensors show that the Gunboat is powered down.
	The moment your ship comes over the horizon, they start running back toward the Gunboat. You destroy their equipment with a few well-placed shots, then train your guns on the crew members, who are still some distance from their ship. When they realize they cannot get back to it before being shot, they raise their hands in surrender.
	You count eight crew members in the group, which is the typical crew complement of a Gunboat. That may mean the Gunboat is uncrewed, and you could kill the crew and steal it. On the other hand, if there are more crew aboard the ship it would be better to destroy it first, then finish off the landing crew.
	(Destroy the ship, then finish off the crew.)
	(Kill the landing crew, then steal their ship.)
	(Accept the crew's surrender.)
	It turns out you made the right choice: someone is indeed onboard the Gunboat still, because the moment you open fire it raises shields and starts powering up its engines and weapons. But, your initial shots must have damaged some critical systems, because it only manages to fire a few shots at you and to lift off about thirty meters into the air before crashing back down onto the ice and exploding. You quickly pick off the landing crew as well; they have no place to hide on the broad, flat glacial expanse.
	Your own mission is complete, so it's time to return to <planet> and report to Freya.
	The landing crew has absolutely nowhere to hide in this glacial field; you pick them off easily. There is no response from the ship, so you land beside it and prepare to board it. But, the moment you open your hatch, the other ship roars to life, powering up its engines and beating a hasty retreat while firing a few parting shots at you from its turret. You fire up your own engines and pursue it...
	Most ships are equipped with external speakers for exactly this sort of situation. You target the ship, and your scanners identify it as the <npc>.
	"Crew of the <npc>, this is Captain <last> of the Free Worlds ship <ship>," you announce. "I accept your surrender, but will you each give me your word of honor that you will take no further part in fighting the Free Worlds?"
	The soldiers appear to think for a brief moment before one of them holds their hand high in front of them, giving you a thumbs-up sign. The rest of the soldiers quickly follow suit without any hesitation.
	"Thank you," you reply. "You may return to your ship and fly back to Republic space."
	The Navy soldiers exchange looks, apparently surprised, but they recover quickly. One of them snaps to attention and salutes you. You return the salute, and then, realizing their captain can't see you, flash your ship's external lights in acknowledgment. The <npc>'s crew fall into formation, march back to their ship, fire up their engines, and take off. Their weapon systems remain unarmed and inactive, as far as your sensors can tell.
	Your mission on this planet done, you launch into space too, monitoring the Navy ship.
Destroy Sensors
Travel back to <destination> and destroy any Republic sensors you find there.
You report back to Freya and Tomek. "I saw a weird sensor blip," you say, "but I was afraid to follow up on it. It may have been the Navy, planting sensors of their own, or doing something else on the planet."
You report back to Freya and Tomek. "The sensors are deployed," you say, "but I caught the Navy doing the same thing. I destroyed one of their installations, but there might be others."
	Tomek frowns. "What do you think, Freya?"
	"I'd say, live and let live. We have no plans to expand north, so it doesn't cost us anything for them to know what is happening in that system. And we don't have resources to spare on sweeping the planet for their sensors."
	"Makes sense to me."
	"Well, I'd rather not give them any advantage, no matter how slight."
	"Good," says Freya, "because I've got a much more interesting job for you to do next. The people at Kraz Cybernetics have a new toy they want to test out, and I volunteered you to help out. They're waiting for you on Rust, in the Kraz system."
	"It's up to you," says Tomek. "If you want to go back there, you can. But it'll just create more ill will, without gaining us any tactical advantage."
	"Also," says Freya, "I've got a much more interesting mission for you. The people at Kraz Cybernetics have a new toy they want to test out, and I volunteered you to help out. They're waiting for you on Rust, in the Kraz system."
	"Sorry, but I hate leaving a job unfinished. I want to destroy those sensors."
	"Okay, you've convinced me."
	"Fine," says Freya, "but report to Rust when you're done. And try not to get yourself killed." She's clearly disappointed in you.
You spend a while sweeping the planet and hoping that the Navy won't come after you. In all, you discover three more sensor installations. There is no way to be sure if you found them all, but it's time now for you to report for duty on Rust.
Weapons Testing
Report to <destination> to assist in some experimental weapons testing.
As a test for the new Plasma Turret, assist the Walloping Window-Blind in destroying the Red Nile, a pirate ship that is probably in the <waypoints> system. Then return to <planet>.
Barmy Edward is the Chief Offensive Engineer at Kraz Cybernetics, known for his inventive and sometimes impractical weapon designs. Supposedly, his engineers gave him the "Barmy" sobriquet after an incident where an experimental epoxy cannon he was working on exploded and glued him to the ceiling.
You are met in the spaceport by a junior engineer from Kraz Cybernetics, who leads you to their facility and introduces you to his boss, who is known as "Barmy Edward." Edward is wearing a set of thick welding glasses and smoking a cigarette. "Pleased to meet you," he says, extending a hand that is encased in a heavy leather glove.
	"Pleased to meet you, too, sir."
	"Same here."
	"Don't call me 'sir,'" he says. "I'm not wearing a suit."
	"Sorry," you say. "It's just all these militia habits I'm learning."
	"I've heard good things about your work," he says. "Assisting the Free Worlds and all. Not that I'm big on politics, but I do like blowing things up."
	"Me too."
	"Well, we try to only blow things up when strictly necessary."
	"Of course," he says. "Anyway, I bet you're wondering what new toys we're going to let you play with." You nod. He says, "We've been trying to come up with a weapon for our capital ships, something that's a match for one of the Navy's Heavy Laser Turrets. Something more elegant than those awful Quad Blaster Turrets the Syndicate makes. So I thought, why not take the biggest thing we've got, and then mount a pair of them on a turret?" He beckons for you to follow, and leads you through a door and into a hangar.
	In front of you is a turret. It is almost absurdly large: a pair of Plasma Cannons mounted on a massive rotating base. "Sixty tons," says Barmy Edward. "Draws more power than... well, than anything else, practically. Runs a little hot, too."
	"It's so... big!"
	"I want one!"
	"That's the ugliest turret I've ever seen."
	"Kind of mesmerizing, huh?" he says.
	"Well, you'll have to wait a month or two for us to work out the kinks," he says.
	"If you're looking for pretty," he says, "go buy one of those wussy guns that Lovelace Labs churn out. We don't do pretty here."
	"So, where do I come in?" you ask.
	"Well, the Council says no testing against the Navy... yet. No point in provoking a fight just to try out an untested weapon. So I asked them what other target they could suggest, and they mentioned this pirate ship by the name of Red Nile that's been haunting the <waypoints> system, sniping on merchants that take a wrong turn and end up there."
	With a grand gesture, he indicates an aging Tarazed Falcon parked in the far corner of the hangar. It's a little rusty, and the paint is flaking, but a Falcon is an impressive ship under any circumstances. "We packed four of our prototypes into our department's very own test ship, the Walloping Window-Blind. We can't let you fly her, of course," he says, "on account of she's dearer to us than our own children. So the plan is, the Window-Blind will accompany you to <waypoints>, and you fight the pirates together, taking careful note of how the guns perform. Sound like fun?"
	"You bet!"
	"What sort of ship is the Red Nile?"
	"One of those antiques from Betelgeuse," he says. "Shouldn't give you any bother. Meet us back here when you're done."
The <npc> has been eliminated. Time to return to <destination> and report to Barmy Edward.
You have returned to <planet>, but your mission is not complete - either the Red Nile is not destroyed, or you have left the Walloping Window-Blind behind.
When you enter the hangar, the Window-Blind has just returned, and a team of engineers is looking it over. Barmy Edward puts down his work to come over and debrief you. "How did the turrets perform?" he asks.
	"Very impressive. I want a few of those on my own ship."
	"Well, I was a bit worried about the ship overheating, but otherwise they work well."
	"Yes," he said, "the team sent me some videos of the battle. First-rate carnage. I was very pleased. Any weak spots you noticed?"
	"Yes, it will require a lot of cooling," he says. "Any other weak spots?"
	"It seems like the only way to fit a gun this big into most ships is by leaving half the hardpoints empty. It's a bit impractical."
	"It worked well against a large ship, but I wonder how well the turrets could track fighters."
	"It's true," he says, "most ships are designed expecting to be equipped with a larger number of smaller guns. But we think this might open up some interesting new directions in ship design.
	"I guess we'll need to test it to find out," he says, "but our main goal was to have a weapon that could do serious damage to a Cruiser. Right now the Navy's heaviest ships have ours severely outgunned.
	"This is to thank you for your help." Barmy hands you <payment>. "To help you pay for your first Plasma Turret once we've got them on the market," he says.
	"When do you think that will be?" you ask.
	"A month or two. I'll send you a message when they're available. Oh, and as for your next assignment, you're escorting a supply convoy to the front. You can meet up with them in the spaceport."
When you land, a message pops up on your communicator from Barmy Edward. A photograph is enclosed as well. The message reads:
	Rejoice, Captain! The next time you are on Rust, you will be able to purchase Plasma Turrets for your very own.
				Regards,
						B. Edward Tivrusky
						Chief Offensive Engineer
						Kraz Cybernetics
Escort Supply Convoy
Escort this convoy carrying equipment from Kraz Cybernetics to the militia base on <destination>.
In the spaceport, you meet up with a woman wearing a militia uniform and carrying a clipboard. "Are you Captain <last>?" she asks. You nod. "We have a large shipment of weapons and equipment that needs to go to the militia base on <planet>. Your job is to make sure none of these ships get... lost in transit." She points to a large landing pad where you count ten Star Barges lined up next to each other.
	"Isn't it risky to transport valuable cargo in such flimsy and vulnerable ships?"
	"Hey, I'm a starship captain, not a cattle herder!"
	"No problem. I'll see to it that they arrive safely."
	"It would be, except that our Free Worlds military presence has nearly, though not entirely, eliminated piracy in the Rim. So while we still need an escort, we're saving a lot of money on crew salaries by using ships that can be piloted by one person."
	"Okay, I hope you're right!"
	She grins. "Yes, I know it's not terribly glamorous work, and keeping track of a big fleet of slow ships is a pain. But, bulk freighters are just too expensive to use on internal cargo convoys. Just make sure you do a headcount when you arrive in each system."
	"Okay, whatever it takes to further the cause of freedom, I'll do it."
You make sure that all ten Star Barges have landed safely, then report to the quartermaster. He thanks you for your work, and mentions that Tomek has asked to see you in the spaceport bar.
Scout out all the pirate systems on the southern fringe of human space, then report back to Tomek on <planet>.
You find Tomek sitting at the spaceport bar with a galactic map. The map has notes written all over it, with lines marking the current Free Worlds and Republic territories. "Good to see you, <first>!" he says. "I pray whatever weapons Barmy Edward had you testing worked well. Most of his inventions are pure genius, but some are just bizarre and useless."
	You describe to him the impressive performance of the Plasma Turrets, and the challenge of finding a ship with enough size for them. "Excellent!" he says. "That opens up some interesting tactical possibilities. But now it's time to switch gears entirely."
	He smooths out the map, sweeping a few stray peanuts and crumbs off it. Apparently he's been sitting here for quite a while. "Right now," he says, "the Navy is leaving us alone, and we have no good reason to attack them. So the Council has been turning its attention to other matters, namely the pirates. They're a big threat to our shipping, and every shipment lost to piracy is a dent in our war effort. Plus, if we could do something about them it would gain us a whole lot of support in the nearby Republic systems. If we can gain sympathy from Republic worlds, then we will lower the Republic's appetite for war."
	"Agreed."
	"But isn't the Navy still the bigger threat?"
	"They certainly are, but there's little we can do about them right now aside from prepare for their next move. We have absolutely no desire to take all of human space away from the Republic. All we want is the freedom to govern our own selves, here in our one corner of the galaxy. So attacking systems that the Republic holds right now would make absolutely no sense, and would likely only embolden the Republic, reinforcing their desire to see us conquered."
	"I suppose you're right," you say.
	"So, here's the plan," he says. "These four systems belong to the pirates." He points to them on the map. "We want you to scout out all four systems. Just a quick fly-through, no need to land on their planets. Then report back to us, and we'll decide what our next step will be."
	As you are about to leave, he says, "Oh, one other thing: you've been approved for a salary raise to 2,100 credits. We figure that helping you maintain a slightly larger ship is a worthwhile investment. Congratulations, Captain."
You have scouted out all four pirate systems that Tomek asked you to visit. Time to head back to the spaceport bar and see if he is waiting for you.
Senator Huygens
Meet Senator Arianna Huygens on <planet>, and transport her to the new Free Worlds Senate building on Bourne.
Surprisingly, when you get back to <origin> you find that Tomek is no longer there. A courier hands you a short note: "Captain <last>: because the decision of how to deal with the pirates is of interest to all the Free Worlds, the Council has decided to convene the first session of the Free Worlds Senate ahead of schedule. I have already left for Bourne. You have been assigned to transport Senator Arianna Huygens of <planet>; please pick her up as soon as possible and bring her with you."
Transport Senator Arianna Huygens to <destination>.
You have reached <origin>, but you do not have a bunk free for Senator Huygens. You should return here after freeing up a bunk.
Senator Huygens turns out to be an attractive woman in her mid-fifties, with a dour expression on her face. "About time you showed up," is all she says when you introduce yourself.
	You take one of her suitcases and lead her into your ship to her room. Once you get there, she says, "I'm glad the Council relented and agreed to convene the Senate. I had begun to worry that the democracy we signed up for had become an oligarchy instead."
	"Don't play dumb. I mean the Council, deciding everything."
	"Don't worry, it was never their intention to hold on to power once each world had had sufficient time to elect their own representatives."
	"Hey, the Council has provided great leadership at a time when no one else was ready to take charge. Give them some respect."
	She looks angry for a minute, then her expression softens. "Oh, pardon me," she says. "I was treating you like another scheming politician, but now I realize you're way too clueless for that. Tell me, Captain, do you know what makes politics similar to piloting a ship?"
	"I have no idea."
	"Ummm... they both involve momentous decisions that have serious consequences?"
	"They both require someone skilled and decisive to be in command?"
	"The correct answer," she says, "was, 'nothing whatsoever; they are entirely different disciplines.' Now, hurry up, I hope to be on Bourne a week from now." You consider explaining to her that it's impossible to get there that fast, but decide against it.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Senator Huygens hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Ijs is now working to found the Conservatory, a publicly funded Free Worlds university that will have a particular focus on terraforming technology. Their goal is to make terraforming methods efficient enough that even Dirt Belt worlds will be able to afford them.
You drop off Senator Huygens, who appears uncharacteristically pleased. "Good work Captain <last>, I see we made good time. It seems you're far more reliable than most captains I work with," she says before walking off.
You drop off Senator Huygens, who says nothing by way of acknowledging your help except, "It's about time we got here." She hurries off.
	A few minutes later, someone shouts, "Hello there, Captain <last>!" It's Ijs Springborn. "I'm glad to see you again," he says.
	"You too. What brings you to Bourne?"
	"You too. Did you hear what happened to Katya?"
	"I guess I'm sort of a lobbyist," he says, "here to make Katya's dream a reality."
	"Yes, that's why I'm here," he says, "to make sure her dream becomes a reality."
	"Which dream?" you ask.
	"Terraforming for the masses. A publicly funded university and research center. Are you familiar with the Free Worlds taxation model?"
	"Not really," you say.
	"It's brilliant. And probably totally unsustainable. Each world that joins us negotiates a certain yearly tax amount based on their population and resources. In return they gain access to our defense fleet and other shared resources. Twenty percent of each planet's tax payments are 'unrestricted,' money the Free Worlds can use for whatever we think is most important. But the rest of the taxes can be earmarked for whatever projects that world thinks are most important. Those taxes can also be in the form of a donation, such as supplying ships or crews for the common militia..."
	He continues talking for quite some time. You stop even trying to follow what he is saying. Finally he sees the blank expression on your face and stops babbling. "The point is," he says, "if we can convince enough worlds to pool their money, the Conservatory will become a reality. Our own public university."
	"So you're here to talk to the senators?"
	"Sounds like that could be a great public relations move for convincing more worlds to join us."
	"Indeed," he says. "Anyway, I'm off to a meeting, but meet me later in the spaceport if you've got room for some passengers."
Southern Patrol
Lead a patrol through the Free Worlds systems on the Southern Rim, driving off any pirates you encounter, then meet up with Tomek on <destination>.
A few minutes later, Tomek shows up at your ship. "Glad you made it," he says. "Sorry to disappear on you earlier."
	"Has the Senate decided anything about the pirates yet?"
	"It seems like some people are a little bit hostile toward the Council."
	"Not yet. This is why I wanted to get as much done as possible while we were still under a relatively agile leadership structure. Getting two dozen politicians to agree on any course of action is... difficult. What did your reconnaissance turn up?"
	"You mean Arianna? Don't worry, she's one of those people who by reflex opposes any idea that comes from someone other than her. Most people appreciate what the Council has done, and in fact before you even arrived the Senate voted to give us a continued advisory role, under the Senate's supervision."
	"They had that vote before she arrived?"
	"Yes, we already had a quorum. She was the last to get here, because of her transportation troubles. Sorry to give you a menial job like that, by the way. Now, what can you tell me about the pirates?"
	You show him your sensor logs. "I've been trying to decide what advice we should give the Senate," he says. "A shock and awe assault on Greenrock might bring all the pirate systems in this sector under our control overnight. But we might have fewer losses if we attack the smaller worlds first, then demand that Greenrock surrender. In any case, something must be done. Even though our biggest concern is the Republic, much of the animus toward them is as a result of their failure to get piracy in this region under control. We must succeed where they have failed, otherwise we'll be no better than they were. If confidence in this project falters, the Free Worlds will collapse, and we'll be back to square one, except with all our leadership, all those who got us this far, in prison."
	"I say we strike right at their heart, and launch a massive assault on Greenrock."
	"Why not start by clearing out the Antares system? It's not very well defended."
	"Occupying four pirate systems in perpetuity would be a huge drain on our resources. Why not try to negotiate with them, say by offering those worlds freedom from our interference as long as they stop supporting pirate fleets?"
	"That's definitely the fastest solution," he says, "although it would also be a difficult one. Defending an assault from the Navy was one thing, but subjugating the seat of pirate power in the region is another. It would be a great show of strength, though, not only to the pirates, but also to the Republic."
	"Sounds reasonable to me," he says. "We could probably do that with minimal loss of life. But the risk is that Greenrock would still refuse to surrender. Anyone could nip at the weakest member of the herd, but if we take down Greenrock first it would be a great show of strength, not only to the pirates, but also to the Republic."
	He frowns. "Negotiate with criminals?"
	"I'm told that only a small portion of the people on those worlds actually engage in piracy," you say, "and many of them are children pressed into service as crew members."
	"That may be," he says, "but their leaders are dangerous criminals, perhaps even more dangerous than the Navy, because they have no honor or morality. Every anarchist world is also a possible haven for other lawless individuals, including any of the Alphas who are still in hiding, so I say we need to capture and control those worlds. The heart of piracy in this region is at Greenrock, and if we take down Greenrock first it would be a great show of strength, not only to the pirates, but also to the Republic."
	"But I suppose we need to wait for the Senate to decide?" you ask.
	"Perhaps," he says. "In the meantime, I've got a related mission for you. While the Senate is deliberating, I'd like you to lead a patrol through our systems in the Southern Rim, to keep up enough of a presence to keep the pirates at bay. Once you've finished patrolling, bring the fleet back to <planet>. By then I should be back there, and we'll discuss our next steps."
Your patrol fleet is still busy finding landing spots, but your work is done. Time to head to the spaceport bar and see if Tomek is there.
Return to <destination> to continue your work with the Free Worlds.
When you updated your game, you were in the middle of a story arc in the Free Worlds campaign that has since been changed. In order to continue, you should go to <destination>.
Attack Greenrock
Disobeying the Senate's orders, head to <destination> and gather a Free Worlds fleet for an all-out attack on the pirate world of Greenrock.
Tomek meets you outside the spaceport bar and pulls you roughly aside into an alley. "Do you still think that an attack on the pirates is our best option?" he asks.
	"Yes, it's our best chance for eliminating the pirates."
	"Only if the Senate agrees. This is a democratic government, after all."
	"Why? What's going on?"
	"Those fools in the Senate want us to negotiate with the pirates," he says. "We need to save them from their own stupidity. I've rallied a battle fleet waiting for you on <planet>, brave captains who are willing to join an assault on Greenrock."
	"Then head to <planet> immediately. I've rallied some militia captains there who will join you in a battle fleet. Our target is Greenrock. It's now or never, before the Senate finishes their work of castrating our military."
	Just then, JJ walks out of the bar and sees you talking with Tomek. "Tomek," he says, "what are you doing? Freya and I are waiting inside." He beckons you into the bar.
	Inside, Freya and Alondo are sitting at a table looking at Tomek's battered galactic map. Tomek, JJ, and you sit down with them.
You find Tomek in the spaceport bar, talking with Freya, JJ, and Alondo around Tomek's battered galactic map. "Well, Captain," says Tomek, "you're going to be happy to hear this. The Senate recommended the same approach you did: negotiating with the pirates." He seems very upset at this.
	JJ explains, "We've been asked to deliver an ultimatum to each pirate world: the Free Worlds maintains the right to attack any ships engaged in piracy. Any world that continues to support piracy, slavery, or illegal weapons manufacture will be a valid military target for us. But first, we are to offer each world the opportunity to become truly autonomous and free from outside intervention, if they will pledge to cease those activities."
	Freya says, "The thing is, just like any other world, most people on the 'pirate' planets are just ordinary farmers, or factory workers, or whatever. The only difference is, they want no off-world government telling them how to live. So that's what we're going to offer them."
	"Our first mission will be to Thule in the Men system," Alondo says. "Although Thule is not the biggest hub of piracy in the region, it is the most populous with almost a billion people, a greater population than all the other pirate worlds in the region combined. We hope that by first coming to an agreement with the majority of the population of pirate worlds in the region, the rest will be easier to negotiate with. I will be leading the negotiations."
	"That's good news! I think the Senate made the right choice."
	"How do you negotiate with a billion anarchists? Sounds like that will take forever."
	"That doesn't make any sense. If we leave those pirate worlds alone, they'll stab us in the back some time in the future."
	"Well, I think the Senate has water flowing through their veins instead of blood," says Tomek, "and I think asking anarchists to make a binding diplomatic contract is an exercise in futility. We should speak with them in the only language they'll understand: violence."
	"Good question," Tomek remarks mockingly. "It's almost like this will be an exercise in futility. We should speak with them in the only language they'll understand: violence."
	"Absolutely," says Tomek. "The Senate doesn't know what's best for them. Perhaps we should save them from their own stupidity and make sure the right thing gets done. A world of anarchists will never come to a binding agreement. We should speak with them in the only language they'll understand: violence."
	"Tomek," says Freya, "this is a democracy. We follow the Senate's orders."
	"And what if those orders are wrong?" Tomek shouts, drawing attention from some patrons of the bar. "When has diplomacy ever worked with pirates? Did diplomacy work for the Republic in the 2800s when they sought to eliminate slave trades across the galaxy? Has diplomacy worked during the years of neglect that the Navy has shown us with the constant raids that the South has experienced? No, it didn't! It was the force of the Republic Navy that nearly eliminated the slave trade! It was the force of OUR militia which finally put an end to the constant raids against our people!"
	"Tomek, that's enough," Alondo says softly.
	JJ, ignoring Tomek's outbursts, says to you, "Captain <last>, the Senate wants you to travel to Thule and deliver their ultimatum. You will be given a single Falcon as an escort: not enough for a battle fleet, just enough to keep you safe. You are to avoid engaging any pirates you meet, if possible. Alondo will be aboard the Falcon and will negotiate with the locals once you arrive. Understood?"
	"Understood."
	"So, we're not going to attack the pirates?"
	Tomek says, "No, we're just going to let them sit there waiting to stab us in the back at the first opportunity."
	Tomek looks at you in disbelief. "So you're just going to agree with them? You're just going to let the pirates stab us in the back at the first opportunity?"
	JJ puts a hand on his shoulder and says, a little more firmly than Alondo did, "Calm down, Tomek. We're obeying the orders of the Senate. We have to honor the democratic process even when we don't like the decisions they make."
	"Oh, the Senate. Of course. The Senate this, the Senate that," Tomek says mockingly while throwing his head back. "The Senate is in no position to be commanding this war. They do not have the military experience that I have, or that you have JJ. Do you think the Republic Parliament is busying themselves voting on every little fleet movement, or do you think they've put this in the hands of the Navy and told them to win this war? I made my reasons clear to you all many times why I didn't want to convene the Senate, because they would only hinder and handicap us from winning this war, and that's exactly what they're already doing!"
	"Tomek! That's enough!" JJ yells, which seems to draw even more surprise and attention than when Tomek yelled. "The Council was decided that the Senate would convene, and so it did. It is only by the grace of the Senate that the Council even still exists."
	"And it'll be by the grace of God that we don't all end up dead because of it," Tomek responds.
	JJ turns to you and Alondo. "<first>. Alondo. I pray your mission to Thule is a success."
	"I'll introduce you to your escort," says Tomek, shaking off JJ's hand as he leads you out of the bar.
	Once you are outside, he pulls you aside and says, "If at any point you are attacked by pirates along the way or change your mind, head to <planet>. I've rallied a battle fleet waiting there, brave captains who are willing to join in an assault on Greenrock. If you join them, they should have enough firepower to take the system."
	"You're asking me to go against the Senate's decision?"
	"Never mind," he says, "I guess you're as weak-willed as the rest of them." He walks back into the bar and leaves you alone.
	Once you are outside, he pulls you aside and says, "Remember what we talked about, <first>." He walks back into the bar and leaves you alone.
Disobeying the Senate's orders, launch an all-out attack on the pirate world of <destination>, then land there.
When you land on <planet>, you find the fleet that Tomek mentioned: a few militia heavy and medium warships, a couple of carriers, three squadrons of interceptors, and even four merchant ships of varying sizes. In total the fleet is nearly as large as one of the fleets that defended Sabik or Kornephoros, but as you survey the motley mix of grizzled militia veterans, young, naive interceptor pilots, and eager merchant captains, you can't help but wonder if a fleet of this size has a good chance against the strongest pirate world in Southern space.
	The Navy failed to conquer Longjump. Why would a fleet of a similar size be capable of conquering Greenrock? Perhaps the Senate was right in suggesting a diplomatic solution. Or perhaps luck will be in your favor.
	(Go ahead and attack Greenrock, disobeying the Senate's orders regardless of the consequences.)
	(Give up on Tomek's scheme and follow the Senate's orders to make a diplomatic visit to Thule.)
	You speak with some of the captains of the invasion fleet. Apparently Tomek has been busy visiting spaceports and giving rousing speeches about ending piracy and slavery once and for all in the South, hence the fleet being so large despite being unsanctioned by the Senate. That also explains the inclusion of a few merchant captains in the fleet, likely local captains who overheard the speeches and aren't interested in joining the Free Worlds to fight against the Navy, but are more than happy to make life easier for their freighters if this succeeds.
	You plan to leave after nightfall, which should hopefully mean that Alondo doesn't realize that you've left him behind until it's too late. Now all that remains is for you to travel to <system>, defeat whatever opposition you find, and land on <planet>. Or die trying.
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still pirates defending the system. All pirates in the system must be eliminated before <planet> can be taken.
As the remaining invasion fleet comes in for a landing on <origin>, you spot small pirate ships scattering from the spaceport, not into space, but instead into the far reaches of the Greenrock wilderness. When you reach the spaceport, there is a wild mix of emotions from the locals who remained. Some spit at you and curse you out. Others thank you for driving off the pirates, even if only temporarily. Others still thank you for freeing them and ask for transportation off-world before the slavers return; Greenrock is the hub of the underground slave trade in the galaxy, and it seems in the confusion and rush for some criminals to escape the spaceport, they left their slaves behind.
	In an attempt to not get yourselves assassinated by pirates looking for revenge, the fleet forms their ships into a circle just outside the spaceport and keeps an eye out for aggressors while waiting for Tomek, or anyone of authority within the Free Worlds for that matter, to show up and determine your next move.
	Hours later, Tomek's ship arrives, with even more ships in tow, likely to support a continued occupation. Tomek greets the invasion fleet, looking ecstatic. "Wonderful work, all of you. The people of the Free Worlds will be thanking you for generations." Tomek orders the members of the occupation fleet to sweep the spaceport, freeing any slaves they find and arresting any known criminals and warlords. "We can't possibly take in every criminal here, but if you find someone with a big name, we need to take this opportunity to arrest them."
	After Tomek is done giving orders and celebrating, he approaches you and gives your hand a firm shake. "Thank you for listening to reason, Captain <last>. I know I asked a lot of you when I asked you to directly disobey Senate orders."
	"What now?"
	"I'm sure we'll be getting in trouble for this."
	Tomek smiles. "Now we do what we can to rout the criminals and warlords out of this place while we have the advantage. The more damage we can do to them, the less innocent people within the Free Worlds will be hurt by piracy in the future. I've already ordered the men to sweep the spaceport, and we'll be leaving a fleet stationed here for some time to keep the peace. In time we may need to pull back to focus on the Navy again, but for now Greenrock is ours."
	"What about the Senate?" you ask. "We'll certainly be in trouble for this."
	"No good deed goes unpunished, I suppose," Tomek says. "Despite the great opportunity we've created for the Free Worlds, I have no doubt that the Senate will not be happy with the actions we took here. Should they attempt to punish us, let me take full responsibility for what was done here. They need me, so my punishment will not be too severe, and any punishment that is placed upon you should hopefully be minor by comparison. If asked, you were simply following the orders of a superior."
	Just then, you hear another ship coming in for a landing. You both look up to see a Falcon landing in the spaceport: Alondo's Falcon that you were supposed to escort to Thule. Tomek has a somber look on his face. "Let me speak with them first," he says to you. "Meet with us in the spaceport later. Hopefully I'll have smoothed things over by then."
Early Warning
The early warning systems you installed on Hope have detected a heightened Navy presence. Travel to <destination> to defend against the potential Navy assault. Any punishment for the invasion of Greenrock will come later.
When you return to the spaceport, you're pointed to a small tent staging area by a militia officer. Inside you find Tomek speaking with Freya and Alondo, both of whom look rather unhappy.
	"Do you not realize how weak of a position this puts us into?" Alondo says to Tomek. "If we want to keep Greenrock then it will be a perpetual resource drain that we cannot afford right now."
	"You're not seeing the bigger picture," Tomek responds. "Yes, we will need to spend resources keeping Greenrock under control, but we're already spending copious amounts of resources defending our planets, systems, and freighters from pirates as is. If we have Greenrock under our control and the other pirate worlds become afraid to act against us then that is one concentrated place that we need to focus on as opposed to being spread thin across our territory. In the end I imagine this will be a net positive for us."
	"That is yet to be seen," says Freya, "but right now we're in the red. Do you know how much we're going to need to spend on repairs as a result of this stunt of yours, not only in credits but in man-hours? A massive amount of our fleet is out of commission because of this. If the Navy attacked now we'd be practically defenseless."
	Tomek pauses as he notices you standing at the entryway to the tent. Freya and Alondo also look over to you. "Care to explain yourself?" Freya asks.
	"I was simply following the orders of a superior. This was Tomek's idea."
	"The orders of your superior were the orders from the Senate to escort me to Thule for a diplomatic mission," Alondo responds angrily. "Now that I'm late and word of this has spread quickly, the people of Thule are not interested in negotiating. I'm sure the Senate would love to hear your explanation. You know full well that you should not have come here, yet you did. You, Tomek, and every other captain here will be answering to the Senate shortly."
	Freya heaves a deep sigh and looks to the side for a moment before reaching to her hip, drawing her sidearm, and shooting you. You do not have an opportunity to react. You must have caught Freya on a particularly bad day. Try again.
	"Well maybe you'll be willing to explain yourself to the Senate," Alondo responds angrily. "Your orders were to escort me to Thule for a diplomatic mission, but now that I'm late and word of this has spread quickly, the people of Thule are not interested in negotiating. You know full well that you should not have come here, yet you did. You, Tomek, and every other captain who took part in this attack will be answering to the Senate shortly."
	Before anyone can continue arguing, JJ rushes into the tent. "Sorry to interrupt, but this little spat is going to need to wait. I just got word that our sensors on Hope have detected increased Naval fleet movements. It seems like they're getting ready for an assault."
	"Have they entered our space?" Alondo asks.
	"No, not yet. Not even a single scout," says JJ.
	"Leave a small fleet here to maintain our occupation, but move the rest of our available forces to <system>," Tomek says, taking charge of the situation. "Recall the eastern patrols. They might arrive late to any battle, but they can at least act as reinforcements if necessary."
	"You're in no position to be giving orders," Freya says, looking disgusted at Tomek. "You and <first> should both be placed under arrest for disobeying the Senate."
	"No," JJ says. "At least not yet. If the Navy is about to attack then we need everyone we can get. We'll resolve this matter once we have the time. And for now, Tomek is still a part of the Council. But if you won't listen to his orders, then I imagine you'll listen to mine, and I agree with Tomek, at least in this instance. Do what he says. Move our forces to <system> and recall any patrols."
	With that, JJ leaves the tent, hurrying off to a ship. Alondo too leaves without a word. As Freya begins to leave, she turns back to you and Tomek. "I'm very disappointed in you. Both of you." She exits the tent, leaving you and Tomek alone.
	"You should get going," Tomek says solemnly. "And don't get yourself killed in this battle just because of this little mess here. As disappointed as they might be, you still have a part to play. The Free Worlds still needs you. I can feel it." He pauses for a moment before saying, "See you on <planet>," and leaving.
When you launch, you receive a message from the Terebinth, Alondo's transport. "Greetings, Captain <last>. This is the captain of the F.S. Terebinth. I have the Council in tow. I know that Greenrock has been suppressed, but I wouldn't be surprised if there are pirates looking for revenge. Care to watch my back on our way to <planet>? Thanks."
Pirate Diplomacy
Following the Senate's orders, travel to <destination> and negotiate with the ruling authorities. Don't fight pirates if you don't have to, and don't let your escort be destroyed.
Defend Thule
Destroy the pirate fleet that is attacking the spaceport on Thule. Free Worlds reinforcements ought to be on their way.
One of the first people to step off the Falcon "Terebinth" when it lands is Alondo. You ask him what the plan is.
	"Well," he says, "the people I'll be meeting with here are tribal elders, of a sort. But the tribes are separated not so much by ethnicity, as by geography and ideology. I can't claim to understand all the intricacies, really, but in matters affecting the entire planet they have authority to make consensus decisions. Of course, there are hundreds of independent settlements and groups that may or may not abide by that decision. So I hate to say it, but Tomek is right that this will be difficult to pull off."
	"What do you think our odds are of a successful negotiation?"
	"What do we do if diplomacy doesn't work?"
	Before he has a chance to respond, the sky lights up with incoming particle beams, and you see one of the Terebinth's engines erupt in a gout of flames. "What the hell?" says Alondo.
	The captain of the Terebinth, who is standing next to you, stares slack-jawed at his ship for a second before jumping into action. "Captain <last>," he says, "fire up your ship immediately and go after whoever is attacking us. I'll call for backup, but you will need to keep the attackers distracted until they arrive."
Return to Longjump
Escort the newly repaired F.S. Terebinth back to the Free Worlds base on <destination>.
A pall of smoke still hangs over the spaceport, and as you are coming in for a landing you fly over one landing pad where bodies draped in sheets have been laid out side by side: dozens of casualties. Several buildings are in ruins, some of them still smoldering.
	Alondo has survived, fortunately. He tells you, "While the fight was going on overhead, I met with the elders, and they agreed that now that the Free Worlds exist and opposing the pirates is a viable option, they will try to put an end to piracy in this system. But they have no interest whatsoever in joining the Free Worlds."
	"That's the best we had hoped for, right?"
	"While we've got our fleet here, why not just demand that they join us?"
	"You can't force people to join a democracy," he says. "Maybe some day they'll be ready, but in the meantime, any pressure we exert on them will turn them from an almost-ally into an enemy."
	"Indeed," he says, "I hate to say it, but that pirate attack actually helped our case. But only time will tell what will come of this experiment of letting worlds be 'independent.' If more worlds start wanting total independence, rather than joining us, our future may not be sustainable."
	"So, what do we do next?" you ask.
	"Well, the Terebinth is patched up, but they could use an escort back to <planet>. After that, you'll have to see what the Senate or the Council want you to do."
You arrive back on Longjump to a hero's welcome. People have heard of the battle you fought on Thule and the deal that was forged with the locals there. JJ and Freya greet you too, and congratulate you. But then Freya says, "We need to talk in private."
	You lead them into your ship, where Freya explains, "Soon after you left for Thule, Tomek took off on his own and raised a fleet for an attack on Greenrock. He thought the Senate's plan of making a deal with the pirate worlds was too cowardly, and that we needed a show of strength instead. Surprisingly, his stunt succeeded; Greenrock is now nominally under Free Worlds control."
	"This puts us in a rather difficult position," says JJ. "Much of Tomek's fleet didn't survive the assault, and those ships didn't come out of thin air; they were intended for defensive purposes in case the Navy attacks again. Word of this has spread quickly. Thule is already second guessing their deal with us, and if Thule has heard of this then there's no doubt in my mind that the Republic has as well."
	"And regardless of his success, an invasion of Greenrock was not approved by the Senate," says Freya. "Tomek was detained on Greenrock by some of our officers on order of the Senate, and he's currently being transported to Bourne for a hearing."
	"Why would Tomek do something like that? It's unthinkable!"
	"How can the Senate have him arrested? He's part of the Council!"
	"That's easy to answer," says Freya. "He didn't like the idea of taking orders from the Senate. He thought they should treat him like a hero and go along with whatever he thought best."
	"Is it really that easy?" says JJ softly. Freya raises an eyebrow, but doesn't respond to the question.
	JJ and Freya are both quiet for a minute, then Freya says, "You know, there are people in the Senate who worry that the Council could become the ruling authority in the Free Worlds, instead of a democratic Senate. It wouldn't be the first time a people's revolution turned into an oligarchy. We of the Council have to be careful not to let that happen."
	"So, what will happen to Tomek?" you ask.
	"That's for the Senate to decide," says JJ. "But he's a tactical genius. We'll need his advice, if this war turns worse."
	Just then, Alondo comes running onto your ship, looking particularly worried. "I hope I'm not interrupting anything too important, but I just received word that our sensors on Hope have detected increased Naval fleet movements. It seems like they're getting ready for an assault."
	"Have they entered our space?" JJ asks.
	"No, not yet. Not even a single scout," says Alondo.
	"We should head to <planet> before deciding our next move," says Freya.
	"About that," says Alondo. "It seems like Tomek is way ahead of us. The news that Tomek is under arrest by the Senate didn't spread quickly enough, and an officer gave him the news about the sensors. He argued that since his position in the Council hasn't yet been revoked, he still has the power to command the militia, and he already ordered all available forces to <system>, including recalling our patrols in the eastern Dirt Belt. The officers who were detaining him reluctantly agreed, given the situation, and released him."
	"What?" Freya says with disbelief. "Tomek is in no position to be giving orders! Let everyone know that he is not to be obeyed!"
	Freya doesn't argue with JJ. "We should get going," says Alondo. "The Terebinth has room for all of us. I'm sure Tomek will find his own way to <planet>."
The Navy looks as though they're preparing for an attack. Scout the <waypoints> systems just north of Free Worlds space to determine the strength of the Navy there.
When you arrive at the quartermaster's building in the spaceport where the militia are gathering, you find that the rest of the Council has already found Tomek and are arguing with him in front of a silent crowd of militia officers who look as though they're watching their parents fighting.
	Tomek pauses for a moment, allowing JJ to step in. "We can discuss the consequences of Tomek's actions later. For now we need to focus on the situation at hand."
You arrive at the quartermaster's building in the spaceport where the militia are gathering. The Council are standing outside, along with a silent crowd of militia officers who look as though they've just watched their parents fighting.
	"Let's get inside," Tomek says, motioning for a number of militia officers to follow. As they file in, he also motions to you.
	(Go inside.)
	On the inside there is a large table with a map of the region at its center, much nicer than Tomek's map that he was using on Longjump. "Officer Sullivan, please give us a sitrep," JJ says.
	"Yes, sir. As the quartermaster of Deep, I have been monitoring the results of the early warning sensors installed on Hope by Captain <last>. For months now we would receive only the occasional ping of Navy ships entering the system, presumably scout fleets or fleets passing through the system from the western Dirt Belt to the east.
	"But starting within the past week, the number of Navy ships passing through the system began to rapidly increase. We went from seeing a fleet every few days to multiple per day, and those fleets that did enter often lingered for a longer amount of time for an unknown reason."
	"Whatever we're capable of, they're capable of and then some," says JJ. "I wouldn't be surprised if they know about our sensors and are trying to use them against us."
	"Captain <last> discovered a Navy Gunboat planting sensors of their own onto Hope when we installed ours," JJ says. "Surely they suspect that we have some as well."
	"They're trying to bait us," Tomek says. "Or they're distracting us."
	"Distracting us from what?" Alondo asks.
	Tomek thinks for a moment. "Have any of the eastern patrols returned yet?"
	"None," says an officer. "Most of our patrols have been sticking close to Tarazed to stay out of reach of the Navy. It'll take a few more days for them to begin arriving."
	"We could sure use those ships that were lost attacking Greenrock," Freya snips.
	Tomek ignores her. "Alright, Captain <last>, I want you to scout <waypoints>. Simply enter the systems, look at what forces the Navy has there, then leave as soon as possible. We need to know what we're up against, if the Navy truly are moving to attack from Wei. If it turns out this is a distraction, hopefully we'll have intel from the returning patrol fleets by then."
Seeking Harmony
<planet> has become an unofficial ceasefire zone for the Navy and Free Worlds patrols in the eastern Dirt Belt. Bring JJ there to attempt to negotiate with the Navy to prevent an attack.
JJ contacts you and says, "Captain, you're going to need a bunk free for me. Do you have space?" You do not, so you should complete or abort another mission to make room for him, then return here.
When you return, you find Tomek and JJ speaking with captains of the eastern patrols. The rest of the Council has been moved off-world in case the Navy retakes Kornephoros.
	"Welcome back, Captain," says Tomek. "I pray that your scouting mission went well."
	"Yes. The Navy didn't give me too much trouble passing through their systems."
	"The Navy gave me some difficulty, but I was able to pull through."
	You recall the strength of the Navy fleets to Tomek and JJ, mentioning the small fleets in Wei as well as the larger fleets in Alioth, Alphecca, and Seginus. "I also spotted a few Protectors in Navy colors," you add. "They were a part of the Navy fleets."
	"I thought we had an agreement that the Syndicate would not act as mercenaries for the Republic," JJ says.
	"They never said anything about selling supplies to the Republic," says Tomek. "They're doing the same for us, after all."
	"What's our next move?"
	"Have we learned anything from the patrols?"
	"The patrols tell us that the Navy presence to the east dropped recently," says Tomek. "Most of them are still there, but it was a big enough drop for our patrols to notice."
	"Apparently the Navy patrols and militia patrols in the eastern Dirt Belt are on friendly terms," says JJ. "No information sharing, of course, but they're not shooting at one another. Neither side has found it advantageous to attack the other; Navy patrols outgun ours and so our patrols don't provoke them, but if the Navy patrols drew our attention then they'd be easily cut off. Given that, we've been able to keep accurate head counts of each other in the east."
	"Which means they'll have noticed our own drop in presence there," says Tomek. "They know that we know that they're making moves to our north. Hopefully baiting us into recalling our patrols wasn't a part of their plan."
	"Well if our patrols are already friendly, perhaps we can talk ourselves out of another battle," says JJ.
	"<planet> has become something of a neutral zone," one of the militia officers jumps in, presumably one from the eastern patrols. "Navy and militia patrols pass each other by in the spaceport without incident. People from the Republic and Free Worlds who know each other meet there often. We could arrange a meeting there."
	"I'll travel there to speak with the Navy. Captain <last> shall be my transport," says JJ. "Tomek shall remain here with the fleet." Tomek nods in agreement. "Meeting dismissed."
	After the officers shuffle out, just you, JJ, and Tomek remain. JJ tells you to wait outside. "I want to speak with Tomek in private for a moment."
	You move outside the building and stand next to the doorway. From inside you can hear the mumbling of Tomek and JJ speaking. You could probably press your ear to the door to hear what's going on.
	(Step away so I don't hear anything.)
	(Eavesdrop on them.)
	"You will go peacefully to the Senate when this situation is handled, right, Tomek?" JJ asks.
	"I did what I had to, and I will not fight the punishment I receive," Tomek responds. "But it's up to you to not squander the opportunity I've provided us."
	"I'll do what I can," says JJ.
	You hear JJ walking toward the door and step away as to not be seen eavesdropping. He exits the building.
	Once they are done speaking, JJ exits the building.
	"Alright, let's move quickly," he says. "There's no telling when the Navy could attack. Chart a course for <destination>. I'll contact the Navy and arrange the meeting on our way there."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying JJ hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Harmony Lost
The peace talks with the Navy have broken down. Another battle seems inevitable. Return to <destination> with JJ to prepare.
Ranulph Hines is a commander within the Republic Navy. While a competent leader, he has a reputation for disregarding many of the Navy's old traditions, instead preferring to do things his own way.
When you arrive, you see that the local Navy and Free Worlds soldiers have already gathered in the spaceport, keeping their distance from one another. News of the meeting must have already spread through the ranks. You see some civilians continuing to go about their day, while others are standing around watching the soldiers, but even with all the soldiers and civilians, the streets feel empty; perhaps many of the civilians that would normally be here have sought out shelter in fear of violence.
	JJ speaks with a Navy officer, asking him who he'll be meeting to negotiate with. "Commander Ranulph Hines, sir." The officer responds, seeming to catch himself up on calling JJ "sir." JJ has a look of concern on his face, but you don't think it's because of the Navy officer calling him "sir."
	"Is something wrong?"
	"Nothing," JJ responds, then pauses before saying, "I fear this won't end well."
	The officer directs you and JJ to an outdoor seating area of one of the spaceport's restaurants, where you find Commander Ranulph Hines finishing what looks like a plate of salmon. JJ sits down across from him.
	"Lieutenant Commander Jean-Jacques Soleau, in the flesh before my very eyes," Hines says, wiping the edges of his mouth. "I never imagined I'd be seeing you again after you so unceremoniously left the Navy."
	"I'm not here to discuss the past, Commander," JJ responds. "I'm here to prevent more bloodshed in this pointless war."
	"As am I, Soleau, as am I. Although I might ask, were the lives lost in your attacks on Geminus and Martini pointless, or were those necessary losses."
	"The Free Worlds is not responsible for those bombings," says JJ, sounding somewhat shaken. "We maintain our innocence, and were seeking to uncover who was responsible before the Republic ordered the Navy to take Kornephoros from us."
	"There was no 'taking,' Soleau. Kornephoros is rightfully Republic territory. We were simply enacting a police action on one of our own worlds, and arresting the terrorists who-"
	"So did you only come here to insult me and the Free Worlds or are you here to discuss peace as I asked?" JJ says, cutting Hines off. "As I said, I'm here to prevent more bloodshed. The deaths of those on Geminus and Martini as well as those in Kornephoros and Sabik were enough already. Continued bloodshed will not satisfy either side in this war."
	"Continued bloodshed like what occurred on Greenrock only days ago?" Hines quips. "I'm sure you are aware that the Navy cannot bring its full force upon the 'Free Worlds.' We have borders to patrol and piracy to tend to. You, on the other hand, have just shattered the biggest hub of piracy in the region, and I have no doubt that this has freed up many resources. It would appear to me that you yourselves are consolidating your forces for an offensive and further bloodshed despite your insistence to the opposite."
	"The actions that were taken on Greenrock were unsanctioned by the Free Worlds Senate or Council," JJ responds. "It was the result of rogue elements that have been taken care of."
	"Rogue elements within your ranks? You certainly have a history of those if it was a rogue element within your insurgency that committed the terrorist acts that took the lives of thousands of Republic citizens. At least, I presume it was a rogue element, as I've never known the venerable Jean-Jacques Soleau to be a liar, so I certainly believe you when you tell me that your 'Free Worlds' wouldn't do that. Although I'm sure you would have also told me that your 'Free Worlds' would never subjugate the population of Greenrock, either."
	"This guy doesn't seem to interested in peace talks. We should go."
	(Let JJ handle the situation.)
	You whisper your concerns to JJ. "No," he responds. "I can handle this."
	"So it would seem that the answer to my question is no," JJ says, raising his voice. "You're not interested in peace talks."
	"I am afraid so, Soleau. The Republic does not wish to lower itself to negotiating with terrorists. As such, I am ordering the arrest of you and every captain and crew member of the so-called 'Free Worlds' here for acts of terrorism and treason against the Republic."
	Some of the militia watching begin to reach for their weapons or move away as some Navy soldiers step forward, but JJ raises his hand to motion them to stop. The militia notice and hold their ground, as do the Navy soldiers. "Where is the Navy honor that we've all heard so much about?" JJ shouts loud enough for everyone watching to hear. "We come here with open arms asking for peace talks and you move to arrest us?" You hear jeers coming from some of the civilians watching.
	Hines turns up his nose. "This is undoubtedly Republic territory you're standing on, Soleau, and therefore we have every right to arrest you."
	"I think your men disagree," JJ remarks. All of the Navy personnel have either remained in or returned to formation. "Remember that I myself was a part of the Navy once. A Navy that each and every one of your honored men surely remember, either because they lived it or because they grew up revering it. But a Navy that I left because of those like you. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but if we can't negotiate peace talks then we'll be leaving. I pray that you'll be wise enough to see the error in your ways and let us go." JJ stands up and begins walking off, leaving Hines to sulk in his chair.
	"Your days are numbered, Soleau," Hines shouts, but he remains in his chair and gives no orders to his soldiers.
	The Navy allows you to leave unmolested as you enter your ship with JJ. "Launch your ship immediately and return to <planet>," he says. "The only thing that rivals honor among the Navy is duty, and I don't want to be around when Hines starts whipping his men into his shape."
Upon entering <system>, you spot Free Worlds ships in combat with the Navy. It looks like the Navy only sent a small force so far; there are only a few ships remaining and there don't appear to be many destroyed ships. Regardless, the Free Worlds captains defending the system would probably appreciate help clearing out the rest before you land.
You've landed on <planet>, but you haven't yet completed all the objectives. Either there are still Navy ships in the system, or one of your ships carrying JJ is not yet in the system.
Preemptive Strike
Meet the Navy ships for battle in <system>, attacking them before they can enter Free Worlds space. Once all the ships have been destroyed, land on <planet>.
When you return, Tomek is busy preparing the fleet. It looks like most of the ships are ready to go, with some already starting their engines. "I take it the peace talks didn't work out," he says.
	"Not quite," says JJ. "Although I think we won a small victory in another way."
	"You'll have to tell me later," Tomek says, beginning to shout as ships around you begin to take off. "Captain <last>, get your ship ready for the air. Our sensors tell us there's a massive Navy fleet in <system>. They could jump in here any hour now. I've ordered a preemptive strike; we're going to rush into <system> and take them head on before they can reach our territory. Detain any surviving Navy personnel on <planet> and we'll send in transports to either ferry them back to the Republic if they agree to join the Oathkeepers, or to Bourne if they refuse. Now get going. We have no time to waste."
There are still Navy ships overhead. Staying on <planet> while your allies are dying in orbit would be a very bad idea.
Although the battle is won, the mood is somber, just as with the first battles of the war. You help the militia tend to the wounded on both sides, caring for the Navy survivors, even on this harsh snowy planet. Within the hour, Free Worlds troop transports arrive to pick them up. As the transports take off, you receive a message from Freya calling you back to Longjump.
With the battle won, return to <destination> to report to Freya.
Senate Hearing
Report to <destination> for a Senate hearing on your recent failure to obey their orders. If you do not arrive by <date>, your service will be terminated.
JJ and Freya meet you soon after you land on <origin>. "Great work in the battle, Captain," Freya says. "Unfortunately, we can't delay the outcome of your attack on Greenrock any longer."
	JJ says, "You have been suspended from your service to the Free Worlds by order of the Free Worlds Council, and are commanded to report to <planet> for a Senate hearing within the next two weeks. There, the Senate will decide your fate. If you do not report for your hearing, your service will be terminated."
	"It's been an honor serving with you."
	"What's happened to Tomek?"
	"You've been a good soldier," JJ says. "May you return to us in time. Goodbye, Captain."
	"Tomek is on his way to the Senate right now," Freya says. "He left as soon as the news of the victory arrived. I imagine his Senate hearing will have occurred by the time you reach <planet>." She pauses. "Goodbye, Captain."
Tomek was removed from the Council and placed under house arrest by the Senate after he disobeyed their orders and captured the pirate world of Greenrock rather than pursue the diplomatic solution that the Senate preferred.
With some trepidation, you enter the Senate building and introduce yourself to the receptionist. He says, "Please wait here. Someone will come for you when they are ready."
	Several hours pass. Finally, you are led into the Senate chamber, where several dozen senators sit, each with a name card identifying the world they represent. Senator Huygens of Mere asks the first question. "Captain <last>, is it true that you took part in a recent unauthorized attack on Greenrock in the Shaula system?"
	"Yes, that is correct."
	"I was following orders from Tomek, from the Council."
	"I didn't ask what your excuse is," she says. "I asked whether you took part in the attack."
	"Yes, I did," you say.
	"Were you aware at the time that you were going against the orders of the Senate?"
	"No, I was led to believe that I was following the Senate's orders."
	"Interesting," says Arianna. "That's not what Tomek told us. And JJ and Freya both said that you were well aware of the Senate's wishes."
	One of the other senators, an older man, asks, "Why did you choose to take part in the attack?"
	"I wanted to do something to end the pirate threat."
	"I trusted that Tomek would know the best strategy."
	"I guess I got too caught up in trying to be a hero."
	"And how did that work out?" says the old man. "Shortly after your attack on Greenrock, the Navy made moves to invade us once again, a plan that was no doubt helped by your actions."
	"Indeed," says the senator. "And I bet it wasn't long after the battle that you realized saving the galaxy isn't that easy."
	"I suppose so," you admit.
	A third senator speaks up, a woman whose name card identifies her as Sara, from Skymoot. "That will be all, Captain <last>. The Senate will confer and decide whether we want your continued services."
	You are led back out to the lobby, where you wait for what feels like another hour. During that time, you speak with someone else and learn that Tomek has been removed from the Council and put under house arrest. Although interestingly, despite Tomek disobeying orders, the Senate has decided to continue the occupation of Greenrock, at least for now, because it would "dishonor those who lost their lives doing what they believed to be right" to leave the planet so quickly.
	Finally, a messenger comes and hands you a small slip of paper. You open it. The message reads: "We have decided that you will be suspended without pay and stripped of your rank. When we are in need of your services again, we will contact you, and your rank will be reinstated as the Senate or Council sees fit." It looks like for now, you are back to being a simple merchant captain.
Smuggler's Den Repairs
Travel to <planet> and pick up a shipment of equipment from the Syndicate for repairing the refinery on Smuggler's Den.
JJ and Freya meet you soon after you land on <origin>. "Great work in the battle, Captain," Freya says. "Unfortunately, we now need to turn our attention to cleaning up Tomek's mess."
	"The people of Thule became wary of our deal with them after Tomek's attack on Greenrock," JJ explains. "They feared that they would be next, and that our negotiations with them were just an attempt to get them to distance themselves from what would be their main line of defense."
	"We have to show them that our offer was genuine," Freya says.
	"How are we going to do that?"
	"So what happens to Tomek now?"
	"Tomek is on his way to Bourne right now," Freya says. "He left as soon as the news of the victory arrived. I imagine we'll know the outcome of his Senate hearing once you've returned from your mission."
	"What mission?" you ask.
	"Well, thanks to you, the Men system is no longer engaged in piracy," says JJ. "And that means the folks on Smuggler's Den are in need of new work. That station used to be a deuterium refinery. With a little work, it can be one, again."
	"A working refinery could bring more income to that system than piracy ever did, and helping to repair it would show the people of Thule that we mean them no harm," says Freya. "Only problem is, the replacement parts are rare, and hard to come by. The Syndicate agreed to sell us the parts, but only if we meet them halfway, on <planet>. That's in the <system> system. Just one jump away from one of the major new Navy bases."
	"We're going to take a supply convoy through Republic space?"
	"How do we know this isn't a trap?"
	"We don't," says Freya, "but the Syndicate has helped us before, and they are always willing to make deals. I don't think they're ready to give up on the chance to sell their wares to both sides in this war just yet."
	"Still, how do they expect us to get a convoy safely to Tundra?" you ask
	"Not a convoy," says JJ. "Just you, Captain. It's only ten tons of spare parts. Your job is to fly to Tundra, retrieve the parts, and return here."
	"I'll do my best."
	"I hope this doesn't turn out to be a suicide mission."
	"I hope so too," says Freya. "If your ship has enough fuel capacity, you might try flying over to the neutral territory of Dabih or Tarazed, and then up to Cebalrai from there, to avoid the worst of the Navy patrols. Good luck, Captain. If anyone can do it, you can."
<planet> Repairs
Bring a shipment of special refinery equipment to <destination>.
You have reached <origin>, but you do not have ten tons of cargo space free for the equipment. Return here when you have made more space available.
Your landing site is an abandoned settlement a thousand kilometers from <origin>'s main spaceport. It's an old oil field that ran dry decades ago, and only a few of the landing pads are still usable. The Syndicate employees quickly load the cargo onto your ship, and say, "Now, take off quickly, before the Navy sees us doing business with a ship flying Free Worlds colors."
After unloading the supplies, you send Freya and JJ a message letting them know that you arrived safely with the refinery equipment. Locals work alongside Free Worlds militia members to throw out the old, rusted hardware and install the new equipment. It will likely take a few days for everything to get up and running again, but the people of this system seem eager to get back to more honest work.
	At the end of the day you receive a response from JJ. "Great work, Captain! This gesture will go a long way. With a great blow being dealt to the Navy, I doubt they'll come for us any time soon, and with our relationship with Thule repaired, I'm sure piracy will be at its lowest in years in this region. Thanks to our successes, we don't have any more work for you at the moment. We'll call upon you in the future when you're needed, but in the mean time you could help our officers with the occasional odd job. They've been posting on job boards around the Free Worlds looking for help from militia captains with spare time. Or you could just take time to relax if you need it. War can be taxing on the soul. Rest if you need to.
	"Before I sign off, I should also mention that I've just learned of the Senate's decision on Tomek. He's been removed from the Council and placed under house arrest until further notice. Furthermore, the Senate has decided that the occupation of Greenrock will continue, at least for now. Although they disagree with Tomek's disobedience, it seems he convinced the Senate during his hearing that holding Greenrock would provide a tactical advantage. Let's pray that this is the right decision to make.
	"Goodbye, Captain. Stay well."
	After months of just traveling around following other people's orders, it feels odd to be left to your own devices for a change.
After you land, you notice that a sizeable crowd has gathered around a video screen near the edge of the <origin> spaceport. You approach to find out what's going on. You're about to ask someone what's happening when you overhear Tomek's voice coming from screen. You look up to see a video of Tomek standing atop a Free Worlds warship and addressing an unseen crowd.
	"For generations we have been neglected by the Republic!" he shouts. "Our grievances were ignored! Our pain and suffering was ignored! Our needs were ignored! We cried out for help, and yet the Republic did nothing, allowing our planets to be ravaged by piracy while continuing to tax our credits for services we were not provided. And as the years have gone on the pirates have only become more and more emboldened.
	"We tried our best, even with the system stacked against us. Councilor Katya Reynolds and others like her spoke on the behalf of billions within the South, Rim, and Dirt Belt. On behalf of us. On behalf of our brothers and sisters, our fathers and mothers, our sons and daughters. And they spat in her face! And when they did that, they spat in our faces!
	"And so we banded together. Friends and family locked in arms, doing that which the Republic would not. We looked out for each other, and raised our own defenses against the piracy that we so feared. And then we stood up together and told the Republic that we would take their neglect no longer. We shouted that the system does not work, and so we will create our own! We, with the sweat, blood, and tears of generations, birthed these Free Worlds!
	"And how does the Republic respond to this? They have finally given us the attention we've asked, but not in the form we desired. They have attacked us! Waged war on us! And in doing so, Katya has become a prisoner of war, held for crimes she did not commit by a system that did not listen to her despite her greatest attempts to be heard."
	"Is this live?"
	"What's happening?"
	"I don't know," a man next to you says. "It was playing the news like usual when suddenly this came on."
	You look back up to Tomek. "Yet even now our struggle does not end. Our new system is already beginning to fail us. I tell you now that the Free Worlds Senate has decided that instead of fighting piracy, they will negotiate with them instead! They will attempt to negotiate with those most known in this galaxy for lying and backstabbing and swindling. Those most known for not following the laws of the Republic, and who will undoubtedly refuse to follow the laws of these Free Worlds.
	"And so I make my plea to you, to those who fight for those who cannot, to join me in arms to give the pirates what they rightfully deserve! For inflicting so much pain upon us! For enslaving and killing our friends and family! For ruining our lives and businesses! For making us live in terror and fear! Who will join me to put an end to it all?"
	The crowd on the video can be heard cheering, and some of the crowd around you even cheers along with them.
	The screen then changes from the video of Tomek to a picture of a news clipping talking about Tomek's house arrest, with words flashing on the screen: "He fought for us, and for that they put him down." A symbol of three green wolves howling at a full moon appears, then the screen fades to black. A few seconds later the recording repeats, showing Tomek stepping up onto the top of a Free Worlds warship. "Captains and crew of the Free Worlds. Merchants of the Free Worlds. People of the Free Worlds. Please give me your attention. I have a plea, a cry for help that has gone unanswered.
	"For generations we have been neglected by the Republic! Our grievances..." The video continues as you saw it. You leave the crowd, not quite sure what to make of this situation.
The Caldera Afterburner is designed for heavy warships, allowing otherwise slow ships to gain a burst of speed to catch up to a faster target or flee from the heat of battle.
The Ionic Afterburner was designed by the Syndicate to compensate for the primary weakness of an ordinary afterburner: namely, that it consumes hyperspace fuel at a prodigious rate. Ionic afterburners instead use a small amount of fuel combined with a large burst of energy from your ship's batteries to achieve the same effect.
When designing the Barb, the Syndicate took the opportunity to integrate their smallest thruster models to create a more compact steering and thrusting engine. The result is not very useful on anything but a fighter, and is only "adequate" in that role. Still, if engine space is at a premium, this is the smallest set of engines that will still get you there (eventually).
This is the smallest thruster that you can buy, so weak that anything larger than a drone will accelerate quite slowly when using this engine. On the other hand, it is also very energy-efficient.
	Ion engines consume less energy than plasma engines and produce less heat, but they also take up more space for the same amount of thrust.
The X2700 Ion Thruster is intended mostly for use in small, single-person or two-person ships, as well as in fighters. It is also used in larger ships, such as freighters, that have very little space for propulsion systems or energy to drive them. But these larger ships move unbearably slowly as a result.
The X3700 Ion Thruster is designed for heavy freighters and small capital ships. In theory, it could be installed in smaller ships too, if they have enough engine space, to attain almost ridiculous speeds.
The X4700 Ion Thruster was developed when the Republic Navy began building warships so large that the X3700 was not sufficient for them. It allows even a capital ship to move at a respectable speed.
The X5700 thruster is intended for only the largest of capital ships. When the Syndicate first began producing them, these engines were considered little more than a publicity stunt, because no ship at the time was large enough to hold one.
This is the smallest set of steering thrusters that you can buy, generally considered suitable only for tiny, pilotless drones. Occasionally pilots looking for some extra outfit space will try swapping out their larger steering systems for one of these, but the results are invariably disappointing.
The X2200 steering system is designed for fighters and other small spacecraft, as well as for use in larger ships when maneuverability is not needed.
The X3200 steering system is intended for small warships and freighters. It produces enough turning force to lend agility to all but the largest of human ships, and it is considerably more energy-efficient than the plasma-drive alternatives.
The X4200 is a powerful steering system, designed mostly for warships because quick steering is seldom a requirement in freighter design.
The X5200 is a steering system so large and powerful that only a handful of ships can install it. Due to its limited market, it is produced in small numbers.
Traditionally, ships turn around so that they can use their main thrusters for deceleration. Some ships, however, are too ungainly for such maneuvers to be convenient, or carry sensitive cargo that must not be being swung around quickly. For such ships, a reverse thruster allows them to apply thrust smoothly backwards.
	Because a reverse thruster must be facing forwards, it must be installed in the weapon section of your ship instead of the engine section.
This is the smallest of the plasma propulsion systems produced by Delta V Corporation, suitable for very light fighters and interceptors.
	Plasma engines are a bit more powerful than ion engines of the same size, but they are less energy efficient and produce more heat.
This thruster is intended for small ships and for freighters. It comes in a crate decorated with a stylized cartoon of a running greyhound.
Impala class thrusters produce a significant amount of force, and are suitable for smaller capital ships. But, your ship may need extra cooling systems in order to handle them.
This engine draws enough power that a ship with anything short of a full-fledged nuclear reactor is unlikely to be able to use it, but the thrust it generates is impressive.
The enormous crate that this thruster is sold in comes decorated with a picture of a grinning Tyrannosaurus Rex with an improbable number of teeth. Only a handful of ships are large enough to require an engine of this size... or to have the capacity for one.
This is the smallest plasma steering system that Delta V produces. The packaging features a cartoon of what appears to be a very highly caffeinated rodent.
The Greyhound class plasma propulsion systems are Delta V's most popular product, suitable for a wide range of small starships.
Impala class plasma steering systems are suitable for most freighters and all but the largest warships, and are also considerably more compact than the ion propulsion systems produced by the Syndicate.
An Orca class steering system will allow any mid-sized ship to turn as quickly as a fighter, and is powerful enough to serve even the largest of warships.
As with the corresponding thruster, the Tyrant class steering system is so large and powerful that very few ships can make use of it.
Large ships often lack the maneuverability to perform the 180 degree turns needed to come to a stop on short notice. For such massive vessels, a reverse thruster allows them to accelerate smoothly backwards, without needing to turn around.
If you're looking for the most powerful engine that will fit into your ship, and have plenty of money to burn, Deep Sky's atomic thrusters are your answer. Of course, the extra energy and cooling they require can easily offset the benefit of their small size.
Deep Sky's atomic thrusters have been in production for centuries, but remain a niche product due to their high prices and high energy requirements.
This thruster is small enough to fit in a light warship or freighter, but powerful enough to move any but the largest of ships. Naturally, such performance comes at an exorbitant price.
If your ship is sporting a set of Deep Sky's atomic engines, you will be the envy of every pilot in the galaxy. No other form of propulsion that humanity has discovered produces so much thrust from such a small engine.
The A860 Atomic Thruster is the most powerful engine sold in human space, and is much more compact than any of the alternatives. But, you may need to upgrade your ship's power and cooling systems to handle it.
Deep Sky's atomic thrusters are a popular choice for high-end starships. It is not uncommon for a set of atomic engines to cost more than the ship they are installed in.
If you have exhausted all your other options for making your ship more maneuverable, it may be time to invest in a set of atomic engines.
Bounty hunters and other captains who need to gain a speed advantage over the ships they are pursuing often dream of being able to save up enough money for a set of atomic engines.
This set of maneuvering thrusters from Deep Sky will allow small warships to turn as fast as a fighter. For larger ships, swapping the existing engines with a set of atomics can free up a considerable amount of space for other outfits or weapons.
Atomic engines are considered by many to be Deep Sky's crowning achievement. Although they are so expensive that relatively few of them are in use, there are few captains who do not dream of one day installing a set of them.
For pilots who want to pull fancy tricks that most are not capable of duplicating, a reverse thruster allows a ship to accelerate backwards, without needing to turn around.
With a powerful enough generator, many ships do not need batteries at all. The one exception is projectile weapons, which usually require a burst of energy far exceeding what the generator produces. Supercapacitors provide just enough energy storage for those weapons, without requiring you to install a bulky battery pack.
A ship can run without batteries if its generator's instantaneous power output is higher than the total energy consumption of its systems, but batteries make it possible to store up energy when it is not needed and thus to use a much smaller and cheaper generator.
This battery pack has more than twice the energy capacity of the most basic model, allowing your ship to engage in combat for longer periods of time before running out of energy. Some pilots have even been known to install these in lieu of any generator at all, trusting that they can reach their destination planet and recharge before running out of battery power, but that is a risky proposition.
This medium-sized battery pack is intended for ships that need to fire the occasional salvo of high-powered weaponry without running out of energy. As with all battery packs, relying on batteries is risky if combat lasts long enough for them to become depleted.
This is a large battery pack designed for ships that may occasionally have high power needs but do not want the expense or the heat associated with a more powerful ship's generator.
For most ships that require this much power, a larger generator makes more sense than a battery this size. However, battery packs have the advantage that they generate no heat, so some captains use them instead of powerful generators if they do not expect to be in combat frequently or for extended periods of time.
This early commercial photovoltaic system was the driving force behind humanity's first interplanetary trade network. Rugged and modular, it can be bolted to the hull of any ship and has seen even the most remote parts of human space.
The compact modularity of the KP-6 lent itself well to the creation of larger solar collection arrays. This original Korunak Photovoltaics model is equipped with a solar tracker, allowing it to make better use of available light.
Fuel cells have been the cheapest and most common starship power sources since the dawn of the space era. This model produces only enough power for very small or slow ships.
This is a step up from the smallest fuel cells, providing enough energy to power a few small guns in addition to your engines.
This is a medium-sized fuel cell, designed to be sufficient for larger civilian ships and small warships while still being more affordable than the more sophisticated generator options.
This is a relatively large fuel cell. Other generators are available that produce more energy and fit into a smaller space, but they are much more expensive. As a result, large civilian ships that will not be frequently in combat often come equipped with these fuel cells.
This is the largest fuel cell available, larger than some nuclear reactors but much, much more affordable. Many captains on a tight budget are willing to put up with one of these until they can raise the money for something more efficient.
Radiothermal generators harvest heat from radioactive isotopes and convert it into electricity. They are more powerful than fuel cells, but also produce a relatively high amount of heat.
Thermionic radioisotopic generators were designed as a cooler-running alternative to radiothermal generators.
Nucleovoltaic generators are a relatively recent generator technology that harvests energy from the decay of a radioisotope source and converts it directly into electricity. They are the most powerful generator that relies on nuclear decay instead of an active nuclear chain reaction.
A Dwarf Core is a miniaturized nuclear reactor, small enough to be installed in any ship larger than a fighter. It was designed by Deep Sky to be paired with their power-hungry atomic engines.
Fission reactors have been a mainstay of large military vessels since even before the dawn of the space era. Today's models are very safe and efficient, but some pilots still find them disconcerting.
A Breeder Reactor is a more efficient fission reactor that captures some of the neutron radiation produced by the reactor and uses it to enrich more fuel. They are also, of course, bigger and more expensive as a result.
The invention of practical fusion power near the end of the twenty-first century spurred a new era of prosperity and plenty. Centuries later, the generators have been reduced in size, but are still generally only used in capital warships.
The Armageddon Core was designed to meet the extreme power needs of the largest warships of the Republic Navy. One of these generators costs more than an entire fleet of smaller ships.
The Stack Core was created by the Free Worlds primarily as a power source for their Dreadnoughts. It is a fission reactor, and therefore less efficient than the Navy's fusion technology, but it is also significantly cheaper to produce.
These <bunks> school students need to reach <destination> by <date> for a historical field trip. The school will pay you <payment>.
The students excitedly rush off your ship, taking pictures of everything they see. The school deposits <payment> into your account.
Earth Day celebration
Bring <fare> to <destination> by <date> for the Earth Day celebration on April 22nd. Payment is <payment>.
You wish your <passengers> the best of luck on <planet>. After collecting your payment of <payment>, your <passengers> put on their Earth Day hats and leave with their belongings.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date> in preparation for the Earth Day celebration on April 22nd. Payment is <payment>.
Spaceport workers already festively dressed for Earth Day remove the cargo of <commodity> from your ship and hand you your payment of <payment>.
Return from Earth Day
Bring <fare> home to <destination> after the Earth Day celebration. Payment is <payment>.
Your passengers thank you for returning them to <planet>, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
This group of <bunks> factory workers are hoping to start anew on <planet> as farmers. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
This family of <bunks> would like to see the historic sights on Luna. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
This group of <bunks> temporary farm workers are looking for transportation back home to Earth. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
Free Worlds Diplomacy
Travel to <planet> to meet up with Alondo, who will explain more.
As you are landing, you receive a message from JJ, on behalf of the Council. The message reads:
	Captain <last>, sorry that we have been out of contact. We need your help once again, to assist in a diplomatic mission. Please meet up with Alondo on <planet> as soon as possible. He will give you more information.
	Captain <last>. Your suspension from the Free Worlds has just ended. The Senate is still not happy with what you did, and has therefore not reinstated your pay, but they have allowed you to continue working for us. Don't cause any more issues and you'll regain your pay. Please meet up with Alondo on <planet> as soon as possible. He will give you more information.
			Sincerely,
				Jean-Jacques and Freya
As you are landing, Alondo contacts you and asks you to meet him in the spaceport as soon as you have a bunk prepared for him.
Bring Alondo to <planet> to meet with Parliament. Your guarantee of safe passage will expire on <day>.
You do not have a bunk free for Alondo. Return here when you do.
You meet up with Alondo, who insists on not telling you anything until you are safely back aboard your own ship. Once you have brought him to his room, he says, "Here's the deal. The Senate has been secretly reaching out to other worlds, and four of them have decided to join us: Harmony, New Portland, Dancer, and New India."
	"That's great news!"
	"Why haven't I heard of this yet?"
	"Indeed it is," says Alondo. "Any worlds joining us would be reason to celebrate, but these four are particularly important because they are on the trade route to Tarazed. If we control those systems, our supply convoys will be much safer."
	"Why isn't this public knowledge yet?" you ask.
	"Well," says Alondo, "apparently the Senate was not being as secretive as they thought. Somehow word leaked out to the Republic that those worlds were defecting, and a massive Navy fleet moved to occupy those systems. Which means we're on the brink of another bloody battle."
	"Don't worry, I'm sure we can defeat them."
	"Is there any way to avoid a fight?"
	"I'm sure we can," says Alondo, "but with heavy loss of life on both sides. We want to avoid that if at all possible. That's where you come in."
	"That's what we're hoping," he says, "and that's where you come in."
	"How so?" you ask.
	He says, "We've arranged for you to be granted safe passage through Republic space for the next three weeks. That's enough time to bring me to Earth and back. If I can meet with Parliament in person, maybe I will be able to work something out."
	"Okay, let's go to Earth!"
	"How do we know this isn't a trap? You're willing to risk your life for this?"
	"If we can save thousands of lives from being lost in a needless battle, it's worth the risk," he says. "Now come on, the clock is ticking. We need to be safely back in Free space before your safe passage expires."
Bring Alondo to <planet> to meet with the senior Navy officers. Take as direct a route as possible, because your safe passage expires soon.
You drop off Alondo and wish him luck. Hours pass, and you begin to worry that he has been taken prisoner or killed. But finally he returns, looking very discouraged. "It makes no sense," he says. "The tax revenue they get from those four worlds doesn't come close to covering the cost of defending them. They should be glad to let them go."
	"So, Parliament won't give up those worlds without a fight?"
	"Maybe they're afraid of the precedent it would set if they give in to us."
	"That's right," he says. "Amazing how heedless they can be, sitting in their comfy Parliament house deciding the fates of others."
	"Yes, that seems to be what's at stake," he says. "But by now they should see the writing on the wall. Amazing how callous they can be about the lives of the Navy crews who are following their orders."
	"So, we just head home in defeat?" you ask.
	"Not quite," he says. "While we have the chance, I want to talk with the Navy leadership directly. Landing near the secret base on New Austria would be way too provocative, so I've arranged to meet with them on their base on <planet> instead."
	"Okay, if that's what it takes to avoid another bloody battle, I'll take you there."
	"Are you insane? Flying straight into the largest Navy base in the sector?"
	"Don't worry," he says. "The Navy takes honor very seriously. If they promise our safety, we'll be safe. At least until that grant of safe passage expires, that is." You have serious doubts, but you have no choice but to obey him.
Bring Alondo back to <destination>. Take as direct a route as possible, because your safe passage expires soon.
When you land on <origin>, Alondo says, "You should join me for this meeting. You may find it eye-opening."
	Four of the Navy admirals who are stationed here have agreed to meet with you. You discover that one of them is from the Dirt Belt. Another grew up in the Rim, and admits to you that if he were not serving the Navy, he would be fighting for the Free Worlds. All four of them seem sympathetic to your cause, and express genuine regret not just for the Navy lives that have been lost, but for the Free Worlds losses as well.
	And all four of them state, without any hesitation or equivocation, that if Parliament orders them to continue to fight the Free Worlds, they will fight until all possibility of victory is gone.
	Alondo thanks them for their time and their honesty, and you return to your ship. "Well, it was worth a try. Now we just have to get home safely," he says.
You are still finding it hard to believe that you made it to Earth and back in one piece. Alondo thanks you for transporting him and says, "Now I just have to break the bad news to the Senate. JJ and I will meet you in the spaceport bar in a few hours, once we've decided what our next steps will be."
Reconnaissance
Fly through <waypoints> to get a sense of the Navy's strength in those systems, then report to <destination>.
Alondo and JJ are in a somber mood when you meet up with them in the bar. You can't help remembering that Tomek always used to be a part of these gatherings, before he turned against the Senate. And now it looks like your next major battle will be fought without Tomek's expert guidance.
	JJ says, "We've done all we can. Sooner or later we will have to fight the Navy for those star systems. So to start with, <first>, we'd like you to scout them out and report back to us on the Navy's presence there. Freya is on Trinket, gathering a fleet. Report to her there when you're done."
Electron Beam
Steal an Electron Beam from a Navy Gunboat and return it to <planet> for Freya to look at. She thought your best bet for finding lone Gunboats might be the Wei or Alnasl systems.
Freya thanks you for performing the scouting mission, and you give her a copy of your ship's logs to analyze. As she looks through them, almost immediately something catches her eye. "Looks like the Navy is fielding some new weapons," she says. "Some higher-yield torpedoes, and a beam weapon even more powerful than Heavy Lasers. Those beam weapons in particular worry me."
	"Yes, that kind of negates the advantage I was hoping we'd have due to our new plasma turrets."
	"Does that mean we're not going to attack them after all?"
	"Well," she says, "the Plasma Turrets weren't the only ace up our sleeve, but still, it's frustrating that the Navy still has such an advantage over us technologically."
	"What should we do?" you ask.
	"We're going to have to fight them eventually, but first we need as much information as we can get on their new weapon systems. I'd like you to find one of their Gunboats that has the new electron beams installed, steal one of them, and bring it back here. I imagine one of them can't be much bigger than twenty or thirty tons, so you ought to be able to find space for it. Think you can do that?"
	"How can I find a Gunboat that's all by itself? They're usually a part of a bigger fleet."
	She thinks about that for a moment, then says, "The Navy has shifted most of their capital ships to the defecting systems in the south. That means that some of the systems up north will have lighter defenses. You might try Wei or Alnasl. Good luck, Captain."
You've returned to <planet>, but you don't have an Electron Beam. Try finding lone Navy ships in Wei or Alnasl to disable and plunder from.
You hand off the Electron Beam to Freya's science team. They tell you that she's waiting for you in a cafe in the spaceport.
You hand off the Electron Turret to Freya's science team. They tell you that she's waiting for you in a cafe in the spaceport.
While refueling on <planet>, a Free Worlds captain approaches you. "Captain <last>, I hear you're on the search for one of those new lasers the Navy is using."
	"Yes I am."
	"Do you have any information on them?"
	"Good, because we have some information that could help you.
	"We've had to stop all scouting parties into Republic space because of the strength of these new weapons, so we're flying in the dark on where the Navy is, but luckily we have received word from sympathizers in the Dirt Belt. The Navy has gathered forces with these new weapons in Alioth and Seginus, frequently entering the Wei system.
	"They haven't been coming into Kornephoros, so they're likely just patrolling the area to dissuade us from making any sudden moves. This means that Wei likely isn't your best bet for stealing a weapon given the traffic, but I hear that things aren't much better beyond Lesath. I wish we had some ships to spare to help you, but we just don't have that kind of freedom right now."
	You thank the Captain for the information and he wishes you good luck.
You decide to scan the Navy ships entering and exiting the system by tapping into the surveillance rigs that you helped Freya set up so long ago. Many of the Navy ships are armed with these new Electron Beams, but they are appearing in fleets too big to take on alone. You notice though that almost all Navy traffic is to and from Alioth and Seginus, while only lone Gunboats are traveling to and from Alnasl. Perhaps you may be able to ambush one of these smaller ships on its own in Alnasl.
Escort Battle Fleet
Travel to <planet> to gather a fleet of experimental new warships, and escort them back to Trinket.
Because this world is a tourist destination, there are innumerable fancy cafes in the spaceport. You meet up with Freya in one of the smaller ones. "Thank you for acquiring that weapon sample for us," she says. "It's typical Republic weaponry: far more efficient than anything we're able to make, and very well designed. My engineers were kind of in awe as they disassembled it."
	"Do you have any tactical advice on fighting ships with one of those installed?"
	"Is there any chance we can reverse engineer it and build our own?"
	"Well," she says, "its range is very slightly shorter than our Plasma Turrets. You might be able to use that to your advantage if you can position your ship just right so that you can hit an enemy target but they can't hit you. You may find that useful in the upcoming battle."
	"Maybe, although we haven't even mastered the art of building Heavy Lasers yet," she says. "We certainly won't have time before the upcoming battle."
	"So we're definitely going to attack the Navy?" you ask.
	"We have no choice," she says. "We tried diplomacy. If we don't show a willingness to support new worlds that want to join us, or if we don't seem to have enough strength to defend them, some of those that have joined us already may start to return to the Republic."
	"Okay, I'm ready to fight."
	"I wish it hadn't come to this, but if you think it's our only option, I'll join the fight."
	"Thank you," she says. "But there's one more thing we must do to prepare for battle. I mentioned before that we have an ace up our sleeve. It's a new warship designed by Southbound Shipyards, intended to be a match for a Cruiser. They've only finished building three of them. I'd like you to travel to Zug and escort them back here. Once you return, we'll prepare for battle."
Escort a fleet of experimental warships to <destination>.
When you land on <origin>, a Southbound Shipyards executive leads you to a hangar. The hangar is huge, but it clearly was not meant to hold a ship as large as the one it now contains. There is barely enough space for the cranes and catwalks being used by the construction crews.
	"The Dreadnought is a new design, the largest ship we've ever built. Only three of them have been completed so far." The size of the Dreadnought is impressive: as bulky as a Cruiser, it looks like a cross between a Bastion and an Argosy freighter. After giving you a moment to take in the view, he leads you out to a section of the spaceport where three Dreadnoughts are parked. Next to them, and looking tiny by comparison, are five Furies. You ask, "Are those Furies part of the battle fleet, too?"
	"Yes," he says, "equipped with some fancy new weapons from Barmy Edward up at Kraz Cybernetics that he said you helped test. I haven't seen them in action yet, but he's convinced they'll be useful against the Navy."
	"Yes," he says, "equipped with some fancy new weapons from Barmy Edward up at Kraz Cybernetics that he recently finished working on. He said they should be entering mass production soon. Flamethrowers, the crazy bastard. I haven't seen them in action yet, but he's convinced they'll be useful against the Navy."
	You thank him for his time, and meet up with the captains of the battle fleet, arranging for them to follow you back to Trinket.
You land on <planet> with the battle fleet. Time to meet up with Freya in the spaceport.
Attack Rastaban
Travel directly to the <system> system, so that you will arrive on <day> and join the battle against the Navy. Disable or destroy all Navy ships in the system.
When you meet up with Freya in the cafe, she looks like she hasn't slept in several days. "I can't believe we're headed for another major battle," she says. "I keep hoping the Navy will just pull back and not force us to fight them."
	"It doesn't seem likely that Parliament would allow that."
	"Yes, their sense of honor can be inspiring at times, but right now it's annoying."
	"Indeed," she says. "Although, based on what Alondo said, the Navy hinted that if we made such a show of force that there was no way they could win the battle, they could honorably choose to retreat. So, if they start trying to retreat, let them go. But I suspect it will be a difficult battle to win."
	"What's the battle plan?" you ask.
	"The fleet from Southbound Shipyards will be traveling with you," she says. "Other fleets with other commanders will be converging on Rastaban separately, at approximately the same time. So, you have no time to lose. You must travel directly to Rastaban from here, or else you will arrive too late to join in the fight. Good luck, captain."
Sweep for Navy Ships
Travel through the systems near Rastaban and make sure that the remainder of the Navy occupation fleet is retreating. (If they are fleeing, let them flee.)
As soon as you land on <origin>, you contact Freya and let her know that the system is yours. "That's great news," she says. "Now we need to make sure they've pulled back from the neighboring systems, too. Take a few ships and sweep through Delta Sagittarii and Albaldah and make sure they're clear. Leave the rest of the fleet on Dancer to handle the prisoners and repairs."
	"What should I do if I encounter Navy ships on my patrol?"
	"What are we going to do with the prisoners?"
	"If they're fleeing, let them flee," she says, "but if you discover a strong Navy presence remaining in one of those systems, report back to Dancer before engaging them. Meanwhile, I'll ask Alondo to contact the Navy admirals and see if we can get Katya back in exchange for those prisoners."
	"Well," she says, "my hope is that we can trade them for any of our people who have been captured so far in this war. Including Katya."
	"You think she's still alive?" you ask.
	"Certainly, and having this many Navy prisoners gives us a great bargaining chip for negotiating her freedom. Now, gather your patrol, and by the time you get back, I hope we will have arranged for her release."
You've finished patrolling the nearby systems. Now you can meet up with Freya in the spaceport, and hopefully she will have good news about Katya.
Return Navy Prisoners
As a goodwill gesture, return the Navy prisoners to <destination> rather than imprisoning them on Clink. Your safe passage ends on <day>.
You find Freya and Alondo watching over a large hangar where several hundred Navy crew and support staff are being kept under guard. Alondo says, "I contacted the Navy admirals. They say Katya is not under their control; she is a prisoner of the Intelligence bureau, and arranging her release could take weeks. But they promised that if we return their prisoners now, they will ensure Katya's release and return her to us soon."
	"How do we know they won't break that promise?"
	"Why not just keep the prisoners until we have Katya back safely?"
	Freya sighs. "Alondo claims that the admirals value their honor so highly that we can trust their promise. I am not so sure. Even if the admirals do their best, what if Intelligence refuses to honor the deal we make?"
	Alondo says, "On the other hand, if we release these prisoners on parole as a gesture of good faith, it could bring us much closer to a diplomatic end to this war. Which would be far preferable to another battle as bloody as this one."
	Freya says, "And meanwhile, JJ is off on a top secret mission. And that means he's not available to consult with, and we need to make this decision now."
	"And since we cannot agree," says Alondo, "we are giving you the deciding vote."
	"We will be putting you in charge of the prisoner convoy," says Alondo, "and arranging a week of safe passage for you. If you think we should return the prisoners as a gesture of goodwill to improve our chances of a diplomatic end to this war, bring the convoy to <planet>."
	"But if you think we should hold on to the prisoners until we receive Katya safely back," says Freya, "bring the convoy to Clink. Understand?"
	It's a serious choice facing you, with no clear right decision. You thank them for trusting you, and begin preparations to escort the prisoners.
Keep Navy Prisoners
Rather than releasing the Navy prisoners, deliver them to the mines on Clink, to be held until Katya is returned to you.
Report to Dancer
Report back to Freya and Alondo on Dancer that you chose to release the prisoners.
<origin> has become the home of a major Navy base almost overnight; the number of ships and people here is almost overwhelming. You return the prisoners, who have all taken an oath of parole to take no further part in the war against the Free Worlds. One of the four Navy admirals who you and Alondo met with earlier is here, and as you are unloading the prisoners, he says, "More volunteers for the 'Oathkeepers,' I see."
	"Who are the 'Oathkeepers'?"
	"The officers you granted parole to months ago. We reassigned them all to duty in the north, patrolling for pirates."
	"You mean they really do honor their promise not to fight us?" you ask.
	"Of course. They swore a vow, after all." You suspect it's not quite that simple, but decide that questioning this admiral's word would be pointless. As you are getting ready to leave, he says, "Don't worry, we will be returning Miss Reynolds to you shortly. The ship carrying her should arrive here in a week or two."
	You hope he is telling the truth. Now, it is time to meet with Freya and Alondo and decide what should be done next.
Report back to Freya and Alondo on Dancer that you chose to keep the prisoners on Clink.
You drop off the prisoners at the mines of Clink, to be held until the Navy returns Katya to you. Now, it's time to meet with Freya and Alondo and decide what should be done next.
You land on Dancer and report to Alondo and Freya that the prisoner transfer is complete. "What do we do now?" you ask.
	Freya says, "Well, I hope we're done with fighting for a while, now. We'll stay here to hold this system against any Navy retaliation. And, we'll keep hoping that Parliament might come to their senses and agree to a diplomatic end to this conflict. In the meantime I suggest you spend some time doing whatever it is you do to earn money on the side - carrying passengers or freight or hunting pirates. We'll contact you when things begin to move forward again."
	"Sounds good. I'll hope to hear from you soon."
	"You're sure there's nothing else I can do to help the Free Worlds right now?"
	Alondo says, "You might hear from some other folks who could use your assistance, but as for the Council, I think it's a waiting game for us right now. Please don't think we aren't grateful for your help, Captain. All we're saying is that hopefully, for a few months at least, we'll all be able to take a break from fighting and go back to actually living our lives."
	"Before you leave, Captain," Freya says. "The Senate has decided to reinstate your pay after these recent events. You should now have a salary of 2,100 credits, just like before."
	Alondo gives you a nod. "We'll contact you as soon as things get interesting again."
Travel as quickly as possible to <destination> to rejoin the main Free Worlds fleet.
Soon after you land on <origin>, you receive a message from Freya: "Greetings, Captain <last>! I hope you've made good use of your time off, because we're about to be right in the thick of it once again. As soon as you're able, please come rejoin the fleet on Dancer. We have some urgent and sensitive work to do."
Northern Expansion
Take a fleet to <destination> (visiting <waypoints> along the way), securing those systems to allow them to defect to the Free Worlds.
You receive a message from Freya: "Captain, please meet up with us as soon as you have a bunk free for Alondo." You have no bunks free, so you should return here once you have made one available.
When you land on Dancer, the Free Worlds fleet appears to be preparing for another battle: missiles and torpedoes are being loaded onto ships and crew members are running around. You eventually find Freya and Alondo, and ask them what is going on.
	"Another three worlds have secretly told us they are ready to defect," says Alondo, "and this time around we want to get there before the Navy does."
	Freya says, "We need you to take Alondo, along with the ships that we've been able to muster, and fly through the <waypoints> systems, then land on <destination>. If all goes well, you will get through to <planet> before the Republic can muster reinforcements. Drive off any Republic ships you encounter along the way."
As soon as you land, Alondo rushes out of your ship to meet with the governor of <planet> and "get these papers signed before they change their minds." He tells you to meet him back in the spaceport in an hour.
Meet With Freya
Now that the northern star systems are secured, go back to <planet> to meet with Freya and work with her to remove any surveillance equipment the Navy installed in the Wei system or elsewhere.
You wait in the spaceport bar for a while. Your Free Worlds uniform has drawn a good deal of attention from the locals: a few of them waved to you when you came in, or gave other subtle signs of approval, but no one is sitting with you. They probably want to avoid getting into trouble with the Republic if the Free Worlds is not able to hold this planet.
	Finally Alondo arrives. "Come on," he says. "Let's talk outside." He seems tired, but not frightened.
	"Is everything okay?"
	"Did they agree to join us?"
	"Yes, yes, of course," he says. "But taking on six more worlds all of a sudden - I just hope it's not more than we can handle. When the Navy recovers from the battle at Rastaban and strikes back, now we have much less idea where that strike will fall."
	"We need to move more of our fleet up here to the front," he says, "but I'd be willing to bet that the Navy has installed surveillance equipment on Hope, and maybe a few other planets in this sector too. Which I should have thought of before, because in order to be sure we've tracked every last one down, we need Freya's expertise in signals and sensors. So, I'm sending you to meet up with her on Dancer."
	"No problem. Don't worry, we'll be able to handle this just fine."
	"Aren't you afraid the Navy will strike while I'm off fetching her?"
	"Of course," he says. "But I talked with JJ, and he thinks they're still recovering from the last battle. And if their sensors all go dark, that will be a big deterrent to keep them from attacking - certainly more of a deterrent than you could add by staying here with our fleet."
	"Understood," you say. "I'll go get Freya."
Sweep Hope
Bring Freya to <planet> and destroy any Navy sensor emplacements that she finds there.
To continue this mission, you need a bunk free for Freya. Return here when you have made one available.
As soon as you land, Freya shows up at your ship with a small suitcase full of clothes. "No time to waste," she says. "Let's get going. Our first target will be <planet>, since we know for a fact that they were installing something there."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Freya hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Sweep Clark
Bring Freya to <planet> to check for any Navy surveillance stations.
As you approach the planet, Freya sits down at your ship's sensor console and begins fiddling with some settings that you didn't even know existed. She seems entirely focused, and clearly knows what she is doing. You recall being told that she is an engineer, not a politician or a military commander, which makes the fact that she has been able to step up as such a strong leader in the Council very impressive.
	"Yup, eight different stations," she says finally, "including this one that I nearly overlooked, buried ten meters under the ice, that is acting as a relay for them." She points out each station on your map, and you fly by each one and destroy it. "Now," she says, "that was what had me most worried, but for the sake of completeness we should sweep the other new worlds, too. Let's go to <planet> next."
Sweep New Holland
Once again, Freya works some sort of magic with your ship's sensors and manages to locate another surveillance station. "Right in the middle of the city," she says. "We'll have to go there on foot and disable it."
	"Are you worried that it might be guarded?"
	"Okay, I'll grab my favorite guns and explosives!"
	"A little worried," she says. "We should be armed, just in case. But I'm not picking up any human heat signatures from the building, and it wouldn't be like the Navy to leave some of their own behind for us to capture."
	"Now, now," she says, "we just convinced this world to join us, let's not go blowing up their whole factory district. I don't see any human heat signatures, but you can bring your weapons anyway just in case."
	Warily, you approach the sensor installation, kicking down the door to an old abandoned warehouse. Freya is right - it's not guarded. She shuts down the transmitter, then asks for your help bringing some of the sensors and other equipment back to your ship. "I always love having a chance to look at Navy technology," she says. "Now, let's head to <planet>."
Sweep New Tibet
You spend quite a while flying back and forth above the surface of <origin>, but Freya is unable to locate any Navy signals originating from the surface. Finally she gives up. "It's an out-of-the-way planet," she says. "Any fleet coming here would pass through Alioth or Seginus first. So I guess they didn't bother to put anything here. Time to head to New Tibet and meet up with Alondo!"
Freya to Zug
Bring Freya to <destination> to help with ramping up Dreadnought production.
As you approach <origin>, Freya quickly locates two Navy surveillance stations and contacts Alondo, asking him to send some Free Worlds personnel to destroy them. Then you land, and Alondo comes aboard your ship to discuss your next steps in person.
	"There's a good chance we've taken care of all the sensors in this sector," says Freya, "so we can start moving our fleets around here without tipping the Navy off. And I just heard from Southbound Shipyards that they've got two more Dreadnoughts ready for service."
	"Only two? I was hoping to get a Dreadnought of my own soon!"
	"Don't we need to defend Rastaban and the other systems to the east, as well?"
	"Patience, Captain," says Freya. "Building prototypes is very different from doing mass production."
	"Yes," says Freya. "Which means our fleets will be stretched thin. We really need them to ramp up Dreadnought production."
	Alondo asks Freya, "Do you think you could help them in the shipyards? After all, you were a superb fleet supply manager back in the Defense Pact days."
	"I'll do what I can, if you think you're all set here," says Freya.
	"I'm fine," says Alondo, "and JJ is on Rastaban now, guarding our other flank. So you can take a break from being on the front." He heads back outside, and you and Freya get ready to visit the shipyards on <planet>.
As you are landing on <planet>, Freya says, "I miss Katya. It's hard being the only woman on the Council."
	"Don't worry, the Navy said they're trying to find her and return her to us."
	"Do you think the Navy reneged on their promise to free her?"
	"I don't know," she says. "I hope the Navy will keep their promise. But in the meantime, three people on Council is too few. We didn't want to say anything to you until the Senate cleared it, but we've nominated you to take Tomek's spot on the Council. What do you say?"
	"I'd be honored. Thank you."
	She grins. "Don't mention it. You've been with us since the beginning, and we've all come to trust what you have to say. I wish we could throw you a big dinner or something to celebrate, but... well, we're all busy with the war right now. But Alondo and JJ both said to tell you they're glad to have you on board. And you'll get a salary increase, of course. Which you ought to celebrate by buying us both a few drinks in the spaceport bar before you leave. Okay?"
	"Okay, I'll meet you back at the spaceport in a few hours."
	"Great," she says, smiling. "See you then." She picks up her suitcase, and hurries over to the shipyard.
Dreadnoughts to <planet>
Escort two more Dreadnoughts to <destination> to help defend the front against any Navy incursions.
Freya turns out to be a whiskey drinker, like Tomek. By the time she has finished her first drink, she is chattering quite passionately about starship design: load balancing, stress lines, shield matrices, shipboard computers. Rather than dulling her intelligence, alcohol just seems to reduce her ability to explain things in ways a non-specialist can understand. You try to steer the conversation towards something less technical...
	"So, why did you join the Council, initially?"
	"Where's your home planet?"
	"How long do you think it will be before they're mass-producing Dreadnoughts?"
	"Well," she says, "you know the Council. Visionaries, big picture people. They needed someone who could take care of the actual concrete details. Data crunching for our 'thousand eyes' program tracking pirate fleet movements. Supply chain management. This was back in the days of the Pact, of course, before we had officially separated from the Republic. And I had worked with JJ in the past, so he asked me to come with him and help out on a larger scale."
	"I grew up on Earth," she says, "deep in the bowels of one of the major cities. Even as a kid I hated that dirty old planet and knew my only shot of leaving there was to be smarter than everyone else. It wasn't until years later, when I came back to visit with some money in my pocket and a bit more perspective, that I was able to travel to the few parts of Earth that are still pretty, and realize how precious our home world is."
	"Ugh," she says, "let's not talk about work while we're busy relaxing." You refrain from commenting that all her talk about starship design sounded a lot more like work than like a fun relaxing topic of conversation.
	You hang out in the bar for another hour or so, and then she says to the bartender, "Two bottles of champagne to go, please." He gives her an odd look, but the Council is well enough respected that he does not question her.
	You walk over to the shipyard, where the two newly completed Dreadnoughts are parked side by side. "Time to christen our new ships," she says, handing you one of the bottles. You each fling a bottle at one of the ships, and shout out...
	"For victory!"
	"For peace!"
	"For justice!"
	"May it come soon," echoes Freya. "Now, tomorrow morning the crews for these ships will be ready, and we'll need you to escort them to <planet>. I'll stay here and do my best to help manage the equipment supply chain and construction crews." She says goodnight, and wishes you a safe journey tomorrow.
You have reached <planet>, but without both the Dreadnoughts you were assigned to escort! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Meet Convoy
Travel to <destination> to escort a convoy of medical supplies. Watch out for Republic attacks.
Waiting for you on <origin> is a message from Alondo: "Hello Captain! We've got another minor crisis: a merchant fleet was supposed to bring us a shipment of medical supplies from up North, since many of our worlds are running short. But, the Republic is threatening to attack the convoy if they try to cross over into our space, so they're waiting on <planet>, just inside of the Republic's territory. Please go meet up with the fleet and bring it back to New Tibet."
Medical Convoy
Escort a convoy carrying medical supplies safely to <planet>. Do not fire on the Navy Oathkeeper ship that is in orbit there.
You land on <origin> and meet up with the fleet you will be escorting. A few minutes later, an urgent message comes in from Alondo: "We've got a crazy situation here. Return to New Tibet immediately with the convoy. You will find a Navy Oathkeeper ship in orbit. Do not attack them, just see to it that the convoy lands safely." The Oathkeepers are Navy officers who swore not to fight the Free Worlds, so you can't help wondering what they are doing on <planet>.
Escort a convoy carrying medical supplies safely to <planet>.
You land on <origin> and meet up with the fleet you will be escorting. A few minutes later, an urgent message comes in from Alondo: "We've got a crazy situation here. Return to New Tibet immediately with the convoy." He provides no further information.
You have reached <planet>, but you left part of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Liberate Poisonwood
Destroy all pirates ships in the <system> system with the help of the Navy Oathkeepers, then land on the planet and let the Navy troops eliminate the Alphas.
You land the convoy safely on <origin>, but everyone seems to be busy with whatever new crisis it is that Alondo alluded to; no one approaches you to help unload the ships. Eventually you track down Alondo and ask what is going on, and why there is a neutral Navy ship in orbit. "We just received word that Poisonwood has been captured by pirates, while all of our fleets were busy guarding the front," says Alondo. You recall that Poisonwood has remained loyal to the Republic, even though they are deep inside Free Worlds territory.
	"If we liberate them, will they switch their loyalty to our side?"
	"If they're not one of our worlds, why should we help them?"
	"Possibly," says Alondo. "But that's not what is important. Before they were overrun by pirate troops, one of the colonists managed to take a photo of the pirate leader."
	"Because one of the colonists took a picture of the leader of the pirates who attacked them," says Alondo.
	He hands you a small printout of a photograph. It is a somewhat blurry picture of a group of armed pirates running down a street in a desert town. What grabs your attention immediately is that several of the pirates appear to have green skin. You recognize that as the mark of the Alphas, the sociopathic, genetically engineered super-humans who enslaved entire planets during the Alpha Wars, five centuries ago.
	"It must be a trick. There can't still be Alphas around. Maybe the pirates dyed their skin green to make people fear them."
	"How is it possible that some of the Alphas are still alive?"
	Alondo says, "This may be a trick, but we can't afford to take that risk. The Alphas were the greatest threat humanity has ever faced. And before they contacted us for help, Poisonwood reached out to the Navy." As he is speaking, a shadow passes overhead. You look up and see the unmistakable silhouette of a Navy Cruiser, coming in for a landing.
	"Are you insane? You're letting the Navy come here?"
	"We're going to work side by side with the Navy right after that awful battle?"
	Alondo explains, "It's only one Cruiser, an 'Oathkeeper' ship, sworn to take no part in our war. The Free Worlds have almost no troops trained for ground combat, so without the Navy's help we would be unlikely to be able to eliminate the Alphas."
	The Navy ship lands, and a man steps off who you recognize immediately: Admiral William Danforth, who is something of a folk hero throughout human space, and who you have heard is the commander of the entire Oathkeeper regiment. With him is a man who he introduces as Commander Aaron Nguyen of the Navy Humanitarian Corps. As Nguyen shakes your hand, you are struck by the fact that although he is your enemy, you see no trace of hostility in his eyes - in fact, his expression is surprisingly warm and affectionate.
	"We have no room for error," says Danforth. "These Alphas must be eliminated, and they must not be allowed to escape. On that, at least, we can all agree."
	Alondo says, "Captain <last> will lead the attack." He beckons to two of the Free Worlds captains. "Marco, Emily, you will join them with your Falcons. Destroy any pirate ships in orbit, then land and secure the facility. Understood?" You nod, and prepare to take off for the <system> system.
You have reached <planet>, but the battle is not over - you've either failed to kill one of the pirates, or left one of your ships behind in a different system.
The ships in orbit are eliminated, but there are still the Alphas and their servants here on the ground to take care of. Danforth's ship unloads a squadron of troops in heavy battle suits. The Navy troops move with far more precision and purpose than you have ever seen among the poorly trained Free Worlds soldiers.
	They sweep the city and quickly ascertain that the Alphas are holed up in a large factory. The troops encircle the building and burst through the doors, and soon you hear the sounds of explosions and gunfire within. You wait with Commander Nguyen in an alley facing the building. "I'm with the Humanitarian Corps," he explains. "Killing things is not in my job description."
	Just then, one of the second floor windows shatters and a figure comes tumbling out, rolls, and starts running in your direction. Then it does something you would swear no human being is capable of: while still moving in your direction, it begins leaping from one wall of the alley to the other as easily as you would run up a staircase, gaining altitude with each jump so that soon it will pass two or three meters above your heads. Several Navy troops are running after it, but they hold their fire to avoid hitting you and Nguyen.
	(Try to shoot it.)
	You open fire, but it is leaping back and forth so fast that it is almost impossible to hit. But then you see Commander Nguyen climb onto a nearby dumpster and leap into the air, managing to grab the creature by the leg as it flies by.
	Unfortunately, by now the creature is far outside your reach. But then you see Commander Nguyen climb onto a nearby dumpster and leap into the air, managing to grab the creature by the leg as it flies by.
	The two of them fall to the ground and roll over and over in a jumble of limbs. You and the Navy troops run after them, afraid to shoot for fear of hitting Nguyen. But somehow Nguyen gets the upper hand, pinning the creature in a full nelson hold, with his legs wrapped around its body to keep it from kicking him. "Kill it!" he shouts.
	(Kill it.)
	(Let the Navy troops deal with this.)
	While Nguyen holds the creature still, you put a gun to its head and pull the trigger. Not even an Alpha can survive that; the creature goes limp. Now that you can get a good look at it, you can see that it does indeed have green skin.
	While Nguyen holds the creature still, one of the Navy troops puts a gun to its head and pulls the trigger. Not even an Alpha can survive that; the creature goes limp. Now that you can get a good look at it, you can see that it does indeed have green skin.
	Nguyen gets shakily to his feet; he looks stunned and very pale. "Thank you," he says. The sounds of gunfire within the factory eventually die down. "We'll continue to patrol the city," says Nguyen, "in case there are more of them. Then I'll meet you in the spaceport." He heads off back into the city.
Destroy any pirate ships in orbit around <planet>, then land and eliminate the Alphas and their servants who have occupied the city.
You land the convoy safely on <origin>, but everyone seems to be busy with whatever new crisis it is that Alondo alluded to; no one approaches you to help unload the ships. Eventually you track down Alondo and ask what is going on. "We just received word that Poisonwood has been captured by pirates, while all of our fleets were busy elsewhere," says Alondo. You recall that Poisonwood has remained loyal to the Republic, even though they are deep inside Free Worlds territory.
	Alondo says, "This may be a trick, but we can't afford to take that risk. The Alphas were the greatest threat humanity has ever faced. We have very few people trained in ground combat, but I've gathered some of our best and loaded them onto a fleet that will be accompanying you. Destroy any pirate ships in orbit, then land and secure the facility. Understood? And don't let any of your escorts die; they're carrying the troops you'll need for the ground battle." You nod, and prepare to take off for the <system> system.
Danforth to <planet>
Escort Admiral Danforth's ship to <destination> so that he can leave Free space without being accidentally attacked.
When you meet up with Nguyen, he still looks very worried. "We think we killed them all," he says, "but we can't be sure. Also, we recovered some instruments for genetic manipulation from the factory. The Alphas can't breed normally, because if their offspring inherit some of the Alpha mutations but not others, the result is rarely viable, and even those that live long enough to be born don't have all the Alpha traits. So, they rely on artificial insemination instead."
	"Well, it's good news that you recovered those instruments, then."
	"It would be," says Nguyen, "except that we also discovered that several dozen of the women who were taken as slaves... are now pregnant. We'll have to ask them to terminate their pregnancies. It's the only safe decision, but I still don't like it." He sighs. "I'm a Buddhist, you know. Committed to doing harm to no living thing. That's why I joined the Humanitarian Corps. They promised me I'd never be asked to take a life."
	"Is that why you didn't kill that Alpha yourself, on the street?"
	"That doesn't seem like a moral dilemma to me. We know those children will grow up to be monsters."
	"Couldn't we let the children be born, if that's what the women want, then imprison them or something if they do turn out to be Alphas?"
	"Yes," he says. "Silly, isn't it? Anyway, this is my job to deal with; you need to go find Danforth."
	"Well," he says, "I envy you for living in a universe where decisions like this are easy. But to me it's still a painful choice to make. Anyway, that's my problem to deal with, not yours; you need to go find Danforth."
	"The Alphas were originally bred to be super-soldiers," he says, "a weapon in the hands of a despotic government. As much as I hate to admit it, there are certain branches of the Republic who would love to get their hands on a small army of impressionable Alpha children. Far better for them to die than for that to happen. Anyway, that's my job to deal with; you need to go find Danforth."
	He leaves, and you return to Danforth's ship. Danforth says, "Hello there, temporary ally. It was an honor to fight alongside you, while it lasted."
	"You too. I wish we could bring this war to an end."
	"If the Republic would just leave us alone, we wouldn't need to be enemies."
	"I know," he says. "But for now, I need to return to my fleet. Which means I'll be needing an escort out of your territory, just to make sure no one attacks me. Maybe you could take us by way of New Tibet? I'm sure Commander Nguyen would appreciate one last visit to the Buddhist monasteries there before that world becomes closed off to us completely." You agree, and he begins preparing his ship for takeoff.
Soon after landing on <origin>, you receive an encoded message from Admiral Danforth, the leader of the Oathkeepers. "Captain <last>," he says, "I would like to thank you once again for allowing us to assist you on Poisonwood. Unfortunately, I have bad news that may concern you. Commander Nguyen, who was with you when one of the Alphas was apprehended, has been assassinated, shot in the head at point blank range. His attacker has not been found. We fear that this may be retribution for his part in the action on Poisonwood, and we urge you and your crew to be cautious. With deepest regards - Danforth."
Return to the Front
Travel to <destination> to bolster the defenses there.
The ships in orbit are eliminated, but there are still the Alphas and their servants here on the ground to take care of. Your escorts unload the troops, who spread throughout the city and quickly determine that, as far as the locals know, the Alphas are all holed up in a large factory on the outskirts of town. The locals also inform you that the Alphas have taken dozens of prisoners and are holding them in the factory.
	As you are trying to prepare the Free Worlds troops to storm the building, suddenly one of your escorts, the Starry Warrior, takes off. You radio the captain, who responds, "Sorry, Captain, but I'm following orders. Alondo suspected you wouldn't like this." Then he opens fire on the factory, destroying everything within several blocks with blaster fire and torpedoes. He does not stop firing until there is nothing left but smoldering rubble in that entire section of the city.
	The Alphas are presumably dead. So are their prisoners, and any of the locals who were unlucky enough to be close to the factory when it was destroyed. The governor of Poisonwood, unable to conceal her anger, asks you to take your troops and your ships and leave her world immediately.
	You send a message to the Council asking what you should do, and they tell you to leave the planet and join Alondo on <planet>, to help bolster the defenses there. You leave <origin> with a heavy heart, glad that the Alphas are gone but wishing things here on <origin> had ended differently.
Alondo to <planet>
Bring Alondo to <planet> to try to convince the locals to join the Free Worlds.
Alondo manages to convince the spaceport to let you land "free of charge."
Alondo contacts you and asks, "Do you have a bunk ready for me?" You do not, so you will need to free one up to continue this mission.
You report in to Alondo, who listens to your description of the battle for Poisonwood with a grim expression on his face. "It's not the end, of course," he says. "It seems like no matter how many times we win a battle against the Alphas, there are more of them out there. But I'm glad that the immediate crisis has been dealt with."
	"Isn't there any way we can track down the rest of the Alphas?"
	"What is our next mission now?"
	"Not really," he says. "There are probably small enclaves throughout human space, and perhaps beyond our space as well. All we can do is make it harder for them to grow powerful."
	"And how do we do that?" you ask.
	"The Senate has authorized a diplomatic mission to Bloodsea," he says. "It's the smallest of the pirate worlds, and we're going to see what we need to offer them to get them to join the Free Worlds. The official settlements there only amount to a few thousand people, so it shouldn't be too hard to convince them that joining us is better than resisting us."
	"Okay, sounds like fun!"
	"Wait, didn't things go south rather quickly the last time we attempted this?"
	Alondo grins. "Yes, but the Free Worlds is in a much stronger position now, and the pirate worlds know it's only a matter of time before they are forced to become civilized. And, the incident on Poisonwood proved that we can't afford to fight a war on two fronts. We need to eliminate the pirate threat, and a diplomatic solution with them is the only sort that will last. So, let's get going!"
Ships from <planet>
In order to work toward a peace treaty with Bloodsea, meet up with a convoy of heavily armed merchant ships on <planet>.
The local leaders are unwilling to meet aboard your ship, and Alondo is afraid you will be ambushed if you venture too far away from it, so eventually they agree to set up a tent on the landing pad next to yours and meet there. Outside, a storm is raging, the rain mixing with salt spray from the blood-red ocean nearby.
	Most of the leaders grimace at the sight of you. "What is the invader doing here?" one of them asks to Alondo.
	"Captain <last> was only following orders, but the officer responsible for giving those orders has been justly punished," Alondo says. "We come in peace this time." The leaders don't seem convinced with that answer, but they agree to continue.
	As you talk, it becomes clear that the inhabitants of Bloodsea are ashamed of how destitute and undeveloped their world is. Several of them have visited the island spaceport on Deep, and after dancing around the issue for a while, they make a request: if the Free Worlds builds them a real, modern island spaceport, they will join the Free Worlds.
	One of them lays out a detailed list of amenities the port must have: concrete seawalls, raised landing pads, floating docks, sturdy hangars and warehouses, and various defense systems "for when the others learn that we've decided to join you." Also, the deal is off if you show up in orbit with a fleet that "looks like an invasion fleet rather than a construction fleet."
	You thank them and return to your ship. Alondo asks, "What do you think?"
	"Well, building a spaceport is probably cheaper than fighting a major battle."
	"They're asking a lot. Why don't we just invade them?"
	"Yes," he says, "except that I can almost guarantee that when we show up on their doorstep with everything they asked for, some local warlord will attack our ships, steal our supplies, enslave our workers, and build himself a nice cozy island fortress."
	"So, we attack them?" you ask.
	"They didn't seem very happy about you doing that the first time. But..." Alondo pauses for a moment.
	"That's certainly the simpler option," he says. "Tomek may have been punished for disobeying the Senate's orders, but we're in a different situation now. Our numbers have swelled because of our victories and new territory, and we now have the Dreadnoughts at our disposal, so occupying Bloodsea is now a viable option.
	"You're on the Council now," he says. "I'll leave it up to you. Option one is, we bring them the supplies and workers, in merchant ships, but use very heavily armed merchant ships in case they double cross us. Option two is, we go to Dancer and see if JJ can lend us an invasion fleet while I convince the Senate that attacking Bloodsea is the better decision."
Supplies from <planet>
Stop on <planet> so that the ships you are escorting can pick up more supplies and workers, then bring them to Bloodsea to help build a new spaceport.
Waiting for you in the spaceport on <origin> are two Behemoth heavy freighters, which will be carrying the equipment and workers to Bloodsea. You can't help notice that nearly a third of their cargo space has been converted into extra outfit space, and both ships have a pair of Plasma Turrets mounted on them, and what looks like Torpedo Launchers as well.
	While you are on Zug, you and Alondo meet up with Freya and ask how the Dreadnought production is going. "We're nearly there," she says, "just one or two kinks left to work out. They've produced another two prototypes, but not enough to start selling them yet. I know, you're itching to pilot one of your own. Believe me, we're working as fast as possible."
	Your next stop is to pick up more workers and construction supplies on <destination>.
You have reached <planet>, but you left the freighters behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Supplies to <planet>
Escort these two freighters to <destination> to help build a new spaceport. This may just be an excuse for pirates to attack you.
You stop on <origin>, and wait as more supplies are loaded onto the two Behemoths you are escorting. Your final stop is <planet>. Alondo thought it likely that some pirates would try to intercept your convoy and steal its cargo, but as long as both freighters land on the planet without being captured or destroyed, you will be able to begin the construction project and thus meet the demands of the people on <planet> to convince them to join the Free Worlds.
A few of the locals on Bloodsea appear surprised that you actually brought the supplies for a new spaceport, and that you arrived with all the supplies intact. But after meeting up with Alondo, they agree to hold their side of the bargain: from now on, Bloodsea will be a part of the Free Worlds, with all the rights and responsibilities that implies. And that means that they will refuse to knowingly harbor any pirate fleets or other known criminals.
	Alondo tells you that he will catch a ride back with the freighters when they return. "But, you'll probably want to head out sooner," he says, "because I've got some good news for you. Freya just contacted me, to say that they're now ready to start selling Dreadnoughts to certain select members of the Free Worlds, including you. That also means she's done with her work on Zug, so she'll need you to give her a lift from there."
Ijs approaches you with his duffel as you're stepping off the <ship>.
	"Thanks for getting me this close, but I really need to get to Winter as soon as possible. I hope you don't take offense that I've booked passage on another transport. Here's <payment> for getting me this far, anyway. I hope to see you again soon, Captain <last>."
Invasion Fleet
Rather than pursuing a diplomatic agreement, meet up with JJ on <planet> and gather a fleet to invade and subjugate Bloodsea.
Capture Bloodsea
Take a Free Worlds fleet to invade the <system> system and eliminate any pirate resistance, then land on <planet>.
When you meet up with JJ, Alondo explains that you're in need of an invasion fleet for Bloodsea. JJ looks confused at the request. "What? Whatever happened to diplomacy? I only heard that the Senate approved a diplomatic mission. Didn't Tomek get punished for this exact stunt?"
	"Alondo convinced me that the Bloodsea natives were just planning to betray us."
	"I don't think the pirates will understand any language except overwhelming force."
	"You're starting to sound a lot like Tomek," JJ remarks.
	"I also contacted the Senate on the way here," Alondo says, "and they approved the invasion. We're much more powerful now than before, making invasion a viable option."
	"Perhaps," says JJ. "I'll provide you with some ships, but I'm not happy about this. I need to keep most of my fleet here, to defend against the Navy, but I'll select a few of the strongest ships to accompany you to Bloodsea. Make sure they make it home safe, though. We'll need every ship we can get for when the Navy attacks. Good luck, Captain."
You land at the main spaceport on Bloodsea with Free Worlds ships circling overhead, ready to bombard the locals if they show any sign of resistance. It is a tense atmosphere, and the leaders sullenly agree to give the Free Worlds access to their planet and to avoid knowingly supporting piracy or other criminal activity. You have won this world, but you have clearly not won the hearts of the locals.
	A while later, you receive new orders from Alondo. "I've got some good news for you," he says. "Freya just contacted me, to say that they're now ready to start selling Dreadnoughts to certain select members of the Free Worlds, including you. That also means she's done with her work on Zug, so she'll need you to give her a lift from there."
Meet Freya on <planet>
Freya is done overseeing the initial production run of Dreadnoughts in the shipyard on Zug. Meet up with her there, to give her a ride to wherever she is assigned next.
Freya to <planet>
Bring Freya to <planet> to meet up with JJ and make plans for convincing Albatross to give up piracy and join the Free Worlds.
Freya comes to your ship soon after you land. She is beaming, and looks more relaxed than you have seen her in months. "Southbound Shipyards is churning out Dreadnoughts now!" she says. "Still only at a rate of one a week or so, but for a ship this big that's quite impressive. And it means you can now buy one of your own, if you've got enough savings. Seriously, even if you can't afford one yet, be sure to stop by the shipyard and check them out." She is clearly very proud.
	"Great job, Freya! I'm really glad to have a talented engineer on the Council to help get things done."
	"Glad to hear it. Now, what is our next action against the pirates?"
	She smiles. "Thanks. It was actually really refreshing to be able to tackle a concrete, solvable problem for a change, instead of all this nebulous political stuff. Speaking of which, our next step will be to go visit JJ. He's going to be doing the diplomatic outreach to Albatross."
	"Right, right, back to work," she says. "Well, it sounds like the next order of business is for you to transport me to <planet> to take JJ's place there while he makes a diplomatic visit to Albatross."
	You ask, "Wait, doesn't Alondo usually handle the diplomacy?"
	"Usually, yes," she says. "But the locals on Albatross specifically asked for JJ. They're a very traditional population, and JJ is well-known as both a family man and a brave soldier. Whereas Alondo is... Alondo."
	"Fair enough. Let's head to <planet>!"
	"Wait, I don't understand. Why don't they like Alondo?"
	She looks genuinely surprised that you don't know. "Alondo is gay," she says. "There are few worlds here in the South where that would bother anyone, but Albatross is one of them. So Alondo is taking a break to go visit the Senate, while JJ deals with this particular diplomatic situation."
	"Okay, I feel silly for even asking. Let's go meet up with JJ!"
	"Actually, I'm gay too."
	"Ah. That certainly explains some things."
	"It seems crazy that anyone would be bothered by that in this day and age."
	"Yes," she says. "Yes, it does. Now, let's go meet up with JJ."
	Freya raises an eyebrow. "I hadn't heard. We don't have time to find someone else for this mission, so you'll need to be the one to transport JJ. Stay safe."
Visit Albatross
Bring JJ to Albatross to negotiate with the local leaders and perhaps convince them to join the Free Worlds and give up their support of piracy.
When you meet up with JJ, he looks exhausted. "Our scouts are reporting that the Navy is building a massive base on New Iceland," he says, "just a few jumps away from here. So every day I look up at the sky and wonder if today is the day when they will invade."
	You talk for a while and agree that despite the threat from the Navy, dealing with the pirates is important. JJ explains that Albatross started out as a sort of farming commune: independent, but not associated with any illegal activity. But they were dominated by pirates, and since then, one pirate overlord after another has held sway over the planet. So in principle at least, the locals ought to welcome the idea of Free Worlds protection.
	While you are traveling with JJ, Freya agrees to stay here and work on a better surveillance network, to give Dancer advance warning if the Navy decides to invade.
Hunt Ryk Bartlett
Hunt down the pirate warlord Ryk Bartlett, who has been plundering merchant convoys in the vicinity of Zeta Aquilae. (Only his personal ship, the Dread, must be destroyed.) Then, return to Albatross.
JJ puts a hand on your shoulder before leaving the ship. "Freya let me know. For safety reasons only, of course. You can stay here if you aren't comfortable."
	"No, I'll come with you."
	"Thank you. I'll stay."
Your meeting with the elders of Albatross happens in secret, by night. They are afraid that if their current pirate overlord, Ryk Bartlett, finds out that they have met with you, they will face retribution. JJ begins by describing the Free Worlds' offer: all the benefits of the mutual defense pact, in exchange for an agreement to uphold human rights and the rule of law, plus offering financial support for the Free Worlds.
	"Begging your pardon," says one of the elders, "but what makes you different from any pirate organization that comes in here, demanding our money in return for 'protection'?"
	(Let JJ answer that.)
	(Try to give an explanation myself.)
	"We're a representative government," you say, "with open financial records and clear human rights guidelines that we uphold."
	JJ explains about the Senate, that each world has a say in how the Free Worlds income is spent. "And," he says, "we will not take your children as slaves, or force you to work in factories producing illegal drugs."
	The elder who spoke seems unconvinced. "Seems to me that you 'Council' folks are the real rulers, and your 'Senate' is a figurehead," he says. "So I don't call that true democracy."
	"Maybe," says another of the elders, "but they're still better than Bartlett. I say, if the Free Worlds can free us from him, we'll at least give their new government a try." A few of the others nod in agreement.
	They explain that to the best of their knowledge, Bartlett is spending most of his time near the Zeta Aquilae system, plundering merchant convoys of heavy metals coming out of Rand and Oblivion. If you can destroy Bartlett and his flagship, the Dread, his followers will probably disperse.
	The meeting with the elders of Albatross happens in secret, by night. They are afraid that if their current pirate overlord, Ryk Bartlett, finds out that they have met with you, they will face retribution. You wait in your ship while JJ attempts to convince the elders that they should join the Free Worlds. After some hours, JJ returns.
	"They're interested," JJ says to you, "but they want the current warlord dead."
	They explained that to the best of their knowledge, Bartlett is spending most of his time near the Zeta Aquilae system, plundering merchant convoys of heavy metals coming out of Rand and Oblivion. If you can destroy Bartlett and his flagship, the Dread, his followers will probably disperse.
You land on <planet>, but realize that you either haven't destroyed Ryk Bartlett's ship, the Dread, or your escort carrying JJ hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and make sure that you've done everything you need to do to complete this mission.
You have destroyed Ryk Bartlett's ship. Hopefully now the elders on Albatross will be more inclined to bargain with the Free Worlds.
Return to Dancer
Return to Dancer with JJ, and meet up with Freya.
When the elders on Albatross learn that you have destroyed Ryk Bartlett and freed them from his rule, they grudgingly agree to join the Free Worlds, "at least on a trial basis." You hope that you will be able to live up to the promises you have given them.
	After you return to your ship, JJ says, "So far Freya says there have been no hints of a Navy attack against Dancer, and she has a new set of surveillance satellites up and running in Alpha Arae to monitor fleet activity. So, let's go meet up with her and decide what our next steps should be."
Occupy Zeta Aquilae
Take a Free Worlds fleet to Zeta Aquilae, drive away whatever Navy ships are there, and then land on Rand, which has decided to join the Free Worlds.
You need a bunk free for Freya (in addition to JJ) to continue this mission.
When you land on Dancer, Freya has just received some exciting news. "It turns out taking out Bartlett had some unexpected side effects," she says. "Bartlett has been hounding the systems on the northeastern fringe of the Dirt Belt for years, and had a lot of enemies. The governments of Rand and Oblivion are so grateful to you for eliminating him that they've reached out to us to begin the process of joining the Free Worlds! And several other worlds in that region are interested now, too."
	JJ frowns. "That's really awful timing," he says, "and would put us in a really bad tactical position - spread out, and with the Navy right in the middle."
	"Are you saying we shouldn't let them join, even though they want to?"
	"Well, I say, if they want to join us, we should let them. Who knows if they'll be this enthusiastic about the Free Worlds later if we let them down now."
	JJ thinks about that for a moment, then says, "Well, I guess we should let them join. It will mean we may need to launch an assault to drive the Navy off New Iceland. But if we do that, our tactical position shifts from one that's worse than what we have now, to something much better. Freya, did they say if there's any sign that the Navy has gotten word of this?"
	"A few Carriers are in orbit around Rand," she says, "so they must suspect something. But the bulk of the Navy fleet is still to the north and east of here."
	JJ says, "Okay Captain, here's what I propose. We'll leave the bulk of our fleet here to defend Dancer and New Portland, but take a few of our best ships to Zeta Aquilae and drive out the Navy. Freya and I will travel with you so that if we need to make any decisions, we'll have most of the Council there in person. How does that sound?"
	"It sounds like a good plan. Let's do it!"
	"I'm still worried we're over-extending ourselves."
	"You may be right," he says. "Freya, what do you think?"
	"I think we need to take this opportunity while it's available," she says. "Sorry, Captain, but I'm with JJ on this one." They both board your ship, and you get ready to travel to Zeta Aquilae.
Regroup at Wayfarer
The Free Worlds fleet has been scattered by a Navy invasion. Regroup with the ships that fled to <destination>, and plan your next move.
You meet up with the governor of Rand, and sign the papers to make her planet a part of the Free Worlds. The nearby systems are reporting no Navy interference: they seem to have been allowed to switch allegiances without any attempt by the Republic to stop them. Of course, that might partly be because these are mining planets, not as necessary to the Republic's survival as the farming worlds on the other end of the Dirt Belt.
	Freya leaves the meeting to check up on her surveillance network, and rushes back into the room a few minutes later. JJ takes one look at the expression on her face and quickly excuses himself from the table. You join him outside in the hallway, and he asks Freya what's going on.
	"The Navy just invaded Delta Sagittarii and Rastaban," she says. "We're cut off from the rest of Free space. Our defense fleet was woefully outnumbered. Many ships were destroyed, and the rest fled back toward the Rim, or to Tarazed."
	"I was afraid of this," says JJ, "but I didn't think it would happen so quickly. I wonder if they knew that these new worlds were joining us, and deliberately used them as a diversion."
	"What do we do now?"
	JJ says, "Freya, you said part of our fleet fled to Tarazed?"
	"Yes," she says. "Probably not a strong enough fleet to drive them off, though."
	"Well, I guess we should regroup with them," he says. "Hopefully then we can plan a coordinated strike. Or if necessary, we can abandon this sector and get our fleet back to the Rim without losing too many ships. Captain <last>, can you take us to <destination>?"
	"What if the Navy follows the fleet to Wayfarer? We're three of the four Council members. Shouldn't we avoid a situation where we could all be killed?"
	From JJ's expression, it's clear that he doesn't even want to dignify that question with a response. "If we die, the Free Worlds will live on," he says, "and there's no way we're abandoning a whole section of the fleet just to save our own skins. So, let's go to Wayfarer."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying JJ and Freya hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
The Defector
Travel to New Tibet to question the Syndicate about the defector supposedly carrying vital evidence and information that they are behind the bombings.
The fleet in orbit around Wayfarer is pitifully small, surely not enough to take on more than a couple of Navy capital ships. JJ orders one of their communication officers to try to establish a secure link to Bourne or to any Free Worlds post on the other side of the Navy blockade. After about ten minutes, the officer returns and says, "Sir, we've received communications from New Tibet sent earlier today. You need to talk to them."
	"Our fleet is there?" asks JJ.
	"No sir, it's the Syndicate. The Syndicate has a war fleet in Alioth."
	"What?" says JJ. He rushes into the communication room, and you and Freya follow. "Play the communication," JJ says. On the video screen is a Buddhist monk in a maroon robe; behind him, you see other monks rushing about with none of the serenity you would usually expect of them.
	The monk explains, "I pray that this communication reaches the Council. Yesterday a Syndicate ship landed near our monastery, and the pilot sought refuge with us. He claims to have evidence that the Syndicate, or some faction within the Syndicate, was behind the attacks on Geminus and Martini. Evidence that a certain faction within the Syndicate values economic growth above all else," says the monk, "and incited this war for that reason."
	"That's insane," says Freya.
	"But not completely implausible," says JJ.
	(Continue watching the communication.)
	The video of the monk continues, "He was unable to show us this evidence, but he made claims of having plans for a nuclear device. After arriving he hid his ship in a cave, just before a Syndicate fleet appeared in orbit. They do not know where the defector landed, so they have begun searching settlement to settlement under the assumption that one is harboring him. They are currently here, wrecking the monastery in their hunt."
	After a moment, JJ says, "If these allegations are true, if we can prove that the Free Worlds was innocent of any involvement in those attacks, the Republic might make peace with us, or at least agree to a ceasefire. I vote that we try to shelter this defector and hear his story."
	"And if it's a lie," says Freya, "and we refuse the Syndicate's request, we lose our only ally. Many more civilians will be killed if we continue to fight without their backing, and we don't even know what this supposed evidence actually is. I care about justice, but trading a definite ally for a slim possibility of peace: that is an unwise investment. I vote that we hand this man over to the Syndicate."
	You look back at the video screen to see that the monk is gone, replaced by a man in a Syndicated Security uniform. "Greetings, Councilmembers. I'm sorry for the confusion, but please understand. We're hunting a terrorist. This man claiming that we are the ones that caused the bombings is, in fact, the leader of the extremist group that caused them. He developed the nukes with the help of a faction of pirates looking to profit from the instability, and now, when we're finally close to capturing him, he's attempting to frame us for his own crimes against humanity. Allow us to find him, and we'll-"
	The feed cuts off. "The message ended there," the communications officer says. The room falls silent.
	JJ breaks the silence. "I still say we rescue this defector. The Syndicate could be lying to us. They don't exactly have a reputation for upstanding morality, after all."
	"Or this 'defector' could easily be the one lying," Freya says. "I say we let them have him while we focus on defending against the Navy. If the Syndicate gets their hands on the true terrorist, their support will surely clear our name. Parliament won't be able to ignore the Syndicate vindicating us."
	As the third Council member present, you have the deciding vote, and the entire course of this war may rest on your decision.
	"I say we rescue the defector, even if it means war with the Syndicate."
	"I say we let the Syndicate have the terrorist, and focus on winning the battle against the Republic."
	"Are you sure?" asks Freya. "The Syndicate has done a lot for us in the past."
	"Yes, I'm sure. We rescue the defector."
	"Fine, we'll hand him over. But I don't think it's the right thing to do."
	"If Katya were here," says JJ, "she would tell us to choose justice over political expedience."
	"Well, she's not here, and I say we can't afford to lose the Syndicate as an ally."
	"I suppose you're right. Let's mount a rescue operation."
	"Very well," says JJ. "In that case, we'll need to meet with the fleet captains and figure out how to take on the Navy. Let's meet in the spaceport bar in an hour."
	JJ seems very relieved at your choice. "I think that's the right choice, Captain," he says. "We can take the fleet we have here, sweep up north to avoid the thickest part of the Navy's occupying fleet, and cut over to New Tibet to question the Syndicate in person."
You spot the Syndicate fleet orbiting above New Tibet when you enter the system, but to your surprise they begin targeting your ship. They don't seem very interested in answering any questions about the defector.
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still Syndicate ships circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
A defector of the Syndicate who decided to risk his life to stop the war between the Republic and the Free Worlds.
It doesn't take long to find the monastery that contacted you earlier; nothing is left of it but the burnt-out shells of buildings. You hurry to land and look around for survivors. You find several corpses dressed in maroon robes, some of them badly burnt, but no sign of the defector or the monk who sent the message.
	(Wait to see if anyone approaches now that the Syndicate fleet is gone.)
	(Give up and contact the rest of the Free Worlds fleet to figure out what to do next.)
	You wait around for a while, but this mountain valley seems to be entirely desolate. Then finally, when you are about to give up hope, Freya spots the distant figures of a few dozen people coming down the side of one of the mountains.
	You are just about to leave when Freya spots something and points. "Look," she says, "someone is coming down the mountain slope toward us." Sure enough, it's a group of several dozen people wearing the distinctive robes of the monks.
	As you wait for them to approach, JJ receives a message from one of the militia crews. "Sir, you have incoming! A scout ship, with Republic markings. Apparently unarmed. Shall we intercept them?"
	"Oathkeepers?" asks JJ. "Or ordinary Navy? Who are they?"
	The voice on the other end pauses. "Neither. Navy Intelligence."
	JJ thinks about that for a second, then says, "Let them land. But follow them down, and if you see so much as a hint of them powering up weapons, blow them out of the sky. Understand?" The officer acknowledges his order and signs off.
	As the group of monks approaches from the mountainside, the scout ship comes in for a landing and skids to a halt in the dirt a few dozen meters away. A woman steps off it. She has dark skin, and is dressed entirely in black. Even the whites of her eyes are black: when she gets closer, you can see that it is actually a scleric tattoo, an intricate Celtic knotwork pattern inked into the whites of her eyes. She sees you staring at her, and winks at you with a friendly grin.
	"I'm Captain <last> of the Free Worlds. What is your business here?"
	"Who are you, and what gives you the right to land on our planet?"
	"My name is Raven," she says. "I'm here to question this defector. If he is telling the truth, our war with you will end today." She pauses, then adds, grimly, "And, another war will begin."
	She frowns. "My name is Raven," she says. "I am here to question this defector. If you are interested in knowing the truth, you will allow me to do so."
	The monks approach, and you see that among them is a man in more ordinary attire, who must be the defector. "Now," says Raven, "I will question him alone, on my ship."
	"No, we insist on being present for your interrogation."
	"Very well, we'll wait outside."
	"No!" says JJ. "We're staying here."
	She hesitates for a long moment. This is probably going against whatever orders she is following. But finally she says, "Very well." The monks step aside. She approaches the defector, and reaches out her hands to him. Hesitantly, he takes her hands. It's an oddly intimate scene, the two of them quietly holding hands and locking eyes - not like any interrogation you have seen before. "Now," she says, "tell me your story."
	"My name is Sawyer," says the man. "I'm a physicist, a Syndicate employee. We had a secret project on Mutiny, a planet in a pirate system. We were developing nuclear weapons." He hesitates, and looks away for a second, then says, "They told me it was for fighting the pirates. I didn't realize otherwise until--"
	"That is a lie," says Raven, calmly.
	He seems flustered. "Okay, they didn't tell me what the weapons were for, and I didn't ask."
	"Why would the Syndicate attack the Republic?"
	"Why did you wait so long to report this?"
	They both seem surprised at you asking a question. Sawyer says, "War is good for business, especially if you're in the business of making weapons. The Syndicate's profits have more than doubled since this conflict began."
	"What led you to report this?" asks Raven.
	He says, "It was when I heard that there had been another major battle. Up until then I had been telling myself that the worst of the damage was done. But after that battle, I knew that millions more could die because of our crime, and that I had the power to stop it."
	Raven continues to ask questions: who was involved, how the facility was hidden, where the raw materials came from. At one point, JJ pulls you aside and says, "She must be a Questioner. How they operate is a tightly kept secret. I'd always assumed their methods were... a bit more medieval."
	Finally, Raven is satisfied, and radios her ship. "He's telling the truth," she tells them. "Send word to the admirals at once. And, release the captive."
	The door of her ship slides open, and another woman steps out - shakily, hesitantly, shielding her eyes against the sunlight. It takes you a few seconds to realize that it's Katya.
	As you all rush over to greet Katya, Raven taps your shoulder and says quietly, "Meet me in the main spaceport in a few hours and we'll figure out what's going to happen next." She returns to her ship.
Liberate Delta Sagittarii
Lead a Free Worlds fleet to drive the Navy out of Delta Sagittarii. Another fleet ought to be arriving from the Rim at about the same time.
A few of the Free Worlds crew members are still milling around the spaceport in confusion. You help to gather them together and explain that you are headed out on a very important mission to New Tibet.
When you and Freya enter the spaceport bar, JJ is talking with someone on his communicator. "The code word is 'havoc,'" he says. "Yes, I'm certain. It's the only option we have left. Good luck."
	"What was that about?" asks Freya.
	JJ says, "I was calling in some reinforcements," he says. "A group of ex-militia folks and bounty hunters who want to further the cause of the Free Worlds, but want to do it freelance instead of taking orders from us or the Senate. They call themselves the 'Wolf Pack.' Have you heard of them?"
	"No, I haven't."
	"Too bad," says JJ, "they've managed to get their hands on some technology I'd love to have access to. But anyway, they've agreed to make an initial strike and fade attack on the Navy fleet to soften them up, before our own fleet gets there."
	"Yes, I helped them get access to some better ramscoop technology from the Deep."
	"No, I haven't had any dealings with them."
	"That's odd," says JJ, "I thought they said you helped them to get their hands on the Catalytic Ramscoop. But anyway, they've agreed to make an initial strike and fade attack on the Navy fleet to soften them up, before our own fleet gets there."
	"Ah yes," says JJ, "an excellent piece of corporate espionage. A little shady and underhanded, of course, which is why we let the Wolf Pack handle things like that rather than doing it through official channels. But anyway, they've agreed to make an initial strike and fade attack on the Navy fleet to soften them up, before our own fleet gets there."
	"That'll need to be one hell of a strike for it to make any difference," says Freya.
	"Don't worry," says JJ, "it will be. They've been itching to get into the fray for months now. Captain <last>, we'd like you to fly along with the fleet and help to mop up whatever the Wolf Pack leaves behind in the Delta Sagittarii system. Then we'll land on New Portland and figure out what our next steps are. Freya and I will ride on your ship."
Scout Kaus Borealis
Travel through the <waypoints> system to determine how strong the Navy presence is there, while JJ works to gather a fleet to attack it.
It was a close battle, and could have gone very differently if it were not for the Wolf Pack strike that happened before you arrived and that disabled or destroyed the majority of the Navy fleet. You can't help but wonder how the Wolf Pack managed to assemble a large enough fleet to do that sort of damage.
	"Well," says JJ, "the die is cast. It's too late now to wonder what that business with the Syndicate was about; now we're in a fight to the finish with the Republic. And that means we must strike soon, before they have time to bring in more reinforcements. Captain <last>, I'd like you to perform a scouting mission while I'm working on gathering a new fleet. Our next target has to be the Navy base on New Iceland. If we can drive them out of that system, our position will be much better. So, I'd like you to fly through Kaus Borealis and return here to report on their fleet strength. Understood?"
	"No problem."
	"Sure, but first, can you tell me how the Wolf Pack was able to do so much damage to the Navy?"
	"As I said," says JJ, "they've gathered a surprising number of bounty hunters and others who operate on the fringes of society, and who are sympathetic to our cause."
	"One more thing," says Freya, "while you're traveling up North, I wonder if you could help to escort a convoy from the Zeta Aquilae system. There's no huge rush, but they're carrying supplies we need for a new reactor core for the Dreadnoughts, so the sooner you can meet up with them, the sooner the new reactors will be available."
Attack Kaus Borealis
Destroy the Navy fleet defending Kaus Borealis. The Wolf Pack will attack them first to soften them up.
When you return to New Portland, a sizeable Free Worlds fleet is already parked on the landing pads surrounding the spaceport. JJ explains to you, "When the Navy struck and cut our territory in half, a lot of these ships were cut off from their chain of command and just went and sheltered wherever they could. So it took a bit of doing to gather them all together. And now what we need is another stirring victory, or they'll begin to scatter again."
	"Are you saying we risk having members of our militia desert?"
	"Well, the fact that they all returned to fight is a good sign."
	"Yes," says JJ, "some of them already have. Think of it from the perspective of a militia member: you signed up to defend one planet against occasional pirates, not to spend years traveling from system to system battling the Navy. Some people have just had enough. This war needs to end, and end soon."
	"Well," says JJ, "at least some of them returned to fight. But many of them didn't. Think of it from the perspective of a militia member: you signed up to defend one planet against occasional pirates, not to spend years traveling from system to system battling the Navy. Some people have just had enough. This war needs to end, and end soon."
	"Well, we can't exactly conquer the Republic. Shouldn't we try diplomacy?"
	"It sounds to me like we need to make a convincing enough show of strength that Parliament will agree to a ceasefire."
	"Yes," says JJ, "it will have to be a diplomatic solution in the end. But we must negotiate that solution from a position of strength, not weakness. And that means driving the Navy out of our territory."
	"Precisely," says JJ, "and the only way to do that is to drive the Navy out of our territory. And if that isn't enough... we have plans for that contingency as well."
	"So, now we attack Kaus Borealis?" you ask.
	"That's right," he says. "Once again, the Wolf Pack will go in first and soften them up, then you and your ships will clean up. I've already given the Wolf Pack orders to attack, so please head straight to Kaus Borealis so you can join the fray before they have time to recover."
Scout out Cebalrai
Scout out the Navy presence in the <waypoints> system, then report back to Tomek on <planet>.
As you bring your ship in for a landing, it occurs to you that this is the first time that you have fought a battle for a Republic star system that had not voluntarily decided to join the Free Worlds, and you are not sure what to do next. Fortunately, soon more Free Worlds ships begin arriving, and one of them is carrying Alondo. Tomek is with him. "Hi there, <first>," says Tomek. "Bet you didn't expect to see me again, huh?"
	Alondo says, "<first>, I'll leave you and Tomek to catch up. I should go talk to the governor immediately. There's no way the locals will have failed to notice the nuclear explosions happening in space right over their heads."
	"What? We weren't using nukes, just conventional weapons."
	"Wait, is that what the Wolf Pack was using?"
	"Yes," says Tomek, "but the Wolf Pack was using nukes." Seeing the incredulous look on your face, he says, "Well, how did you think they were doing all that damage? You thought they had some massive battle fleet hidden somewhere that no one knows about?"
	"That's right," says Tomek. He doesn't seem terribly happy about it. "How else would they be doing so much damage to the Navy? It's not like they've got a massive battle fleet stashed away somewhere."
	Alondo hurries off to the city hall to try to meet with the governor, and Tomek explains, "All the Wolf Pack has is a handful of very fast ships armed with nukes. They jump into the system, unload the missiles at whatever targets they can find, and then hightail it out of there before the Navy has a chance to respond. This is quite a mess you all have gotten into while I was gone, by the way."
	"Weren't you under house arrest?"
	"So, does the fact that you're here mean the Senate pardoned you?"
	"Yes," he says. "After that incident with the Alphas on Poisonwood, some folks in the Senate started thinking that I was right to view the pirates as a threat. And when the Navy went on the offensive, they decided I was needed for the war effort. So I've been reinstated. Glad to hear you're on Council now too."
	"So, what's our next step?"
	"I'm still really confused about why we're using nukes. Or where we got them from."
	Tomek frowns. "I'm not too happy about that, myself. The Wolf Pack is buying them from a warlord on Greenrock. And the way they're paying him is with uranium, so every nuke he gives to us means another one or two he can build for himself. Not a good situation, if you ask me, but I guess the Wolf Pack thought it was the only way to turn the tide of the war."
	"Well," he says, "if we can take Cebalrai, our entire territory will be behind just two choke points, which will allow us to defend ourselves against the Navy without spreading the fleet too thin. So next, I'd like you to go scout out the Cebalrai system and report on the Navy's position there."
There are a few Navy ships here, but nowhere near as many as were in the Kaus Borealis system before your last attack. Perhaps the Navy has decided to pull back their forces.
Capture Cebalrai
Lead an attack on the Cebalrai system and drive out or destroy any Navy ships that you find there.
You meet up with Tomek and Alondo and tell them that the defenses in the Cebalrai system did not seem particularly strong. "They must've seen the writing on the wall and pulled back the rest of their fleet," says Alondo.
	"Either that," says Tomek, "or they're wary of engaging us again now that they know we're willing to use nukes. Which I'm still not happy about, by the way. It's only a matter of time until they respond in kind. But in any case, our next move is clear: bring a fleet to Cebalrai and capture the system. <first>, you'll be in charge of that fleet. Alondo can travel with you to handle the diplomatic aftermath."
	"Before we go on," Alondo says, "you two should know that I just received word that Tarazed has decided to officially sever ties with us."
	Tomek looks rather somber before saying, "Bold move for a system we have completely surrounded. They're none of our concern right now. Let's make our way to Cebalrai."
Uranium Convoy
Travel to Oblivion to escort a freighter that is delivering uranium to a warlord on Greenrock.
As you are bringing your ship in for a landing, you hear an odd plinking sound from the hull, similar to the sound of flying through a swarm of micrometeorites. After a few seconds, you realize that it's the sound of your ship being hit by small arms fire from the town below. Your hull is far too strong to be damaged by bullets, but the message is clear: you are not welcome here.
	The spaceport is apparently deserted, and no one seems eager to come out and greet you. A few bullets continue to plink harmlessly off your hull, from snipers in the nearby buildings. "I think it would be best for me to just contact the governor via radio," says Alondo.
	"Don't they know our fleet could easily destroy them if we wanted?"
	"Do you think we have any chance at a peace settlement?"
	"That would be an awful precedent," says Alondo, "perhaps worse than the fact we're using nukes. If civilian populations become a legitimate target, any of our worlds could be attacked at any time. And it's not like there's any way to defend a world from orbital bombardment. No one would ever be able to feel safe in their own homes again."
	"I hope so," says Alondo. "We'll let them keep shooting at us for a while, to vent their anger and let them prove their point. Then once they see the Navy isn't going to rescue them, we'll negotiate. That's really our only alternative. I do not want to be the person who authorizes the first attack on civilian targets since the dawn of the Republic."
	You wait for about an hour. Meanwhile, more Free Worlds ships continue to enter the system, one of which is carrying Tomek. He radios you and says, "I think we've got things under control here, which means there's a new mission for you. You probably aren't going to like this, but we need you to escort a freighter from Oblivion. Part of our ongoing deal with the Devil: a shipment of uranium headed for Greenrock."
	A Free Worlds ship lands close enough to your own ship that Alondo can transfer over to it without being in sight of the snipers. "Good luck," he says as he departs. "I hope when you return we will have negotiated some sort of meeting with Parliament."
Escort a freighter that is delivering uranium to a warlord on Greenrock.
You land on <origin> and meet up with the grim-faced captain of a Container Transport named the Blue Yonder. "The cargo is already loaded up," he says, "and I'm ready to go. The sooner we get this stuff out of my cargo bays and I can get back to shipping food and medicine, the better. I really hope you folks on Council know what you're doing."
You have reached <planet>, but the Blue Yonder is not here yet! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Warhead Convoy
Escort a freighter carrying nuclear warheads to Solace.
You land at one of the many private fortresses on Greenrock owned by various competing warlords. Some workers unload the cargo from the Blue Yonder, and load it up with some lead-lined, well-padded crates that must contain nuclear warheads. You're not sure you like being a part of this, but it may be true that this is the only way you will stand a chance against the Navy.
Let's Try Diplomacy
Return to Tundra to meet up with Alondo and take him on another visit to Parliament. Maybe this time they will be willing to negotiate a truce.
A member of the Wolf Pack who identifies himself as "Odie" oversees the unloading of the warheads from your ship. "Excellent," he says. "It will take a while to install these in missiles. But once we do, in recognition of how much you have assisted us, Fifi has authorized us to sell them to you if you want."
	"Great! I think I'd like a dozen of them."
	"Sorry, I'm following orders by bringing this convoy here, but I want no part in the use of nuclear weapons, even for the sake of winning this war."
	"Wait, 'Fifi'? Is that your leader?"
	He laughs. "I'm afraid that's not possible. Unlike most missile systems, we haven't yet developed any sort of feed system that would let you fire multiple missiles from the same gun port. So, it's a weapon you can only fire once from a given port. But on the plus side, two of them are enough to bring down the shields on even the largest Navy vessel."
	"That's understandable," he says. "And also foolish and shortsighted. But, I can understand why some people want to cling to the belief that war is some sort of noble endeavor rather than a no holds barred struggle for survival."
	"Yes," he says, "Fifi is the leader of the Wolf Pack. And she is an absolutely ferocious individual. I assure you that you do not want to be responsible for crossing her. Not that you'll ever have to, of course, because we're all on the same side here." He grins.
	Soon after he is done unloading the cargo, you receive a message from Alondo: "Good news, <first>! The Republic has agreed to allow us to make a diplomatic visit to Parliament. Hurry back here to <planet> before they change their minds."
Travel to Earth with Alondo and meet with Parliament to try to negotiate terms of a truce.
You have reached <origin>, but you don't have a bunk free for Alondo! You should return to <origin> once you have freed one up.
When you meet up with Alondo, he seems excited and optimistic. "The Republic has agreed to one week of safe passage," he says, "just enough time to get us to Earth and back. And what's more, I told them that one of our terms would be a mutual release of all prisoners of war, including Katya, and they agreed."
	"That's great news! Let's get going!"
	"Wait, isn't this the third time they've promised to give Katya back to us? I'm starting to think she isn't even alive anymore."
	"Well, I sincerely hope you're wrong," says Alondo. "I miss her. We might never have gotten into such dire straits if she had been leading us."
	As you are returning to your ship, Alondo points out an Argosy parked next to you and says, "By the way, this ship will be escorting us on this mission. Providing a bit of extra defense."
	"Um, I don't think an Argosy is strong enough to tip the scales in a battle against the Navy."
	"Please tell me that thing isn't armed with nukes. Because that would cause a major diplomatic incident."
	Alondo sighs. "Yes, but the Senate thought if we brought anything bigger, it might look like an attack fleet rather than an escort. And of course, it's not carrying nukes, because if the Navy picked those up on their sensors, they'd blast us out of the sky long before we could land on Earth. Anyway, let's get going and hope for the best."
	"No, no, of course not," says Alondo. "If the Navy picked those up on their sensors, they'd blast us out of the sky long before we could land on Earth. Anyway, let's get going and hope for the best."
You have reached <planet>, but the Big Brother is not here yet! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
The peace negotiations with Parliament failed. Return to <planet> without being destroyed by the Navy.
When you land on Earth, the Big Brother flies down to the spaceport with you to see that you arrive safely, then takes off immediately. You and Alondo are escorted to the House of Parliament. As you wait to be called in to speak to Parliament, Alondo seems very nervous, pacing back and forth and fiddling with his watch every few minutes.
	Finally you are invited into the Parliament chambers, and Douglas Xao, the Speaker, says, "Representatives of the Free Worlds, we are prepared to hear your demands."
	Alondo says, "We're not here to make demands. We're here to work together to negotiate a peace settlement. The Free Worlds are prepared to return all our prisoners of war, to cede control of the Cebalrai and Kaus Borealis systems back to the Republic, and to promise not to expand our territory north into the so-called 'breadbasket' worlds, even if those worlds want to join us. All we ask in return is autonomy, and peace, and a return of the prisoners you have taken, including Katya Reynolds."
	Xao gestures to the guards, and they escort in a third person to stand beside the two of you. It takes you a moment to realize that it's Katya, looking rather worn-out and bedraggled. She whispers to you, "So, you're using nukes now? Whose damn fool idea was that?"
	"It was the only way we could resist the Navy."
	"I didn't find out that's what they were doing until afterwards. I don't like it any more than you do."
	"Fair enough," she says, "but I hope it doesn't wreck our chances at negotiation."
	Xao addresses the three of you. "We have heard your demands," he says, "and now, here is our response. Katerina Reynolds, Alondo Gruyere, and <first> <last>, you are hereby charged with treason and insurrection. Your trial will begin immediately."
	"What? We were guaranteed safe passage!"
	"You will regret this! If you arrest us, the Free Worlds will retaliate against you."
	As you try to protest, Alondo speaks up. He is not shouting, but his voice carries over the murmur of other voices. "We have a ship in orbit. If we do not return--"
	Xao cuts him off. "Your ship is no threat to us. We have already verified that it carries no nuclear weapons, and this building's shielding and anti-missile systems are quite sufficient to defend against conventional weapons. And there is nothing in its cargo hold but ordinary, non-radioactive metals."
	Alondo says, "That's right. Tungsten, to be exact. Aerodynamic tungsten rods, each the size of a tree trunk, with a simple guidance system on one end. Our ship is in low earth orbit, traveling at a velocity of roughly eight kilometers per second." As he speaks, the Parliament chamber gradually grows very quiet. "So we will be returning to our ship," says Alondo, "with Miss Reynolds. If the ship in orbit does not hear from me every two minutes, it will jettison its cargo, and there will be nothing left of this building but a crater." He points to the watch he is wearing, and you realize that it must be some sort of communicator.
	After a brief whispered consultation with a few of the other members of Parliament, Xao says, "You will lose this war, and you will pay dearly for it. Guards, let them return to their ship." You hurry back to your ship and take off immediately, aware that as soon as you are out of range of Earth, the Navy will probably be more than willing to attack you.
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Alondo and Katya are on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Defend Cebalrai
Destroy the Republic ships that are attacking this system, then land and decide what to do next. Free Worlds reinforcements should be on their way.
When you land on Tundra, Tomek seems glad to see Katya back, but you sense that he's also a little wary of how she will respond to the choices the Free Worlds have been making. "Using nukes, threatening orbital bombardment," says Katya, "treating the Syndicate as an ally. Anything else I missed while I was gone?"
	"We only want this war to be over as soon as possible."
	"We've just been trying to avoid being destroyed by the Navy, and things have gotten a bit out of hand."
	"I see," she says. "Did you have a plan for what comes next, or are we just winging it now?"
	Alondo says, "Unfortunately, we do have a plan. Our very last contingency plan. We call it the 'checkmate' option. Our fleet will push north--"
	He is interrupted by one of Tomek's men running into the room. "Sir, we have a major Navy fleet incoming. We need all ships in the air immediately to repulse them. Reinforcements are on their way, but they may not get here for a while."
	Tomek says, "So, it begins. Captain <last>, get back to your ship and aid in the defense."
Tomek and Alondo meet you when you land. Tomek says, "Good work aiding in the defense. Now we need to move before the Navy has time to regroup. And the Senate has decided that you will be in charge of the fleet that makes our counterattack."
	Alondo says, "They have also approved a salary increase for you, to seventeen thousand credits per diem. I know that's probably still not enough, but we are running a bit low on cash."
	"One other thing," says Tomek. "I don't know how you'll feel about this, but I received word from Solace that they have nukes for sale if you want any. I'd advise against it, but it's up to you. Also, since you will be the flagship of our assault, you should make any improvements you feel are necessary to your ship. Then meet us back here, in the spaceport. Of course, if you're ready to go immediately that's fine, too."
Upgrade Your Ship
If you want, travel to <destination> to install nuclear missiles in your ship. You may also want to invest in some other upgrades. Then meet Tomek and the others in the spaceport on Tundra.
Make any further upgrades to your ship that you consider necessary. Then meet Tomek and the others in the spaceport on Tundra.
Attack Menkent
The Wolf Pack has launched an initial attack on the Menkent system. Follow up with your fleet and finish off the Navy defenses. Katya will ride with you.
You have returned to <origin>, but you do not have a bunk free for Katya. You should return here once you have a bunk free.
You meet up with Tomek in the spaceport. He is talking with the captain of one of a group of four Clippers that have landed next to each other some distance away from the rest of the Free Worlds fleet. The Clippers appear to have unusually large engines and afterburners, and in place of guns they are each carrying four missiles. Tomek sees you approaching and says, "And here's Captain <last>. Captain, are you ready to lead the attack?"
	"Yes, I'm ready."
	"Are these the Wolf Pack ships?"
	"Yes indeed," says Tomek. "I know, you probably have mixed feelings about this, but they really are the quickest way to win this war."
	Tomek tells the Wolf Pack captain, "Okay, we're ready to go. Launch immediately, and Captain <last> will follow behind you. <first>, Katya has asked to travel with you; she wants to get back into the action, and I thought she might have the best chance of anyone at dealing with the folks on the ground on <planet>. Once again, you'll need to drive off any Navy ships before landing there. Good luck."
Capture <planet>
Bring a fleet to <destination>, driving off any Republic ships in the system.
As soon as you land, you and Katya contact Tomek and inform him that the system is yours. "Excellent," he says. "Press on with your fleet and take Vega before they have time to regroup. Another Wolf Pack fleet will meet you there for the final assault on the Sol system."
	"Understood. We will depart immediately."
	"Are we really sure we want to attack Earth?"
	"Have they given us any other choice?" asks Tomek. "We tried diplomacy. And we cannot hope to defeat the entire Navy. So, unless we wish to surrender and all be put on trial as war criminals, we need to press on and gain the upper hand in the only way we can. The Senate and the Council are agreed on this." You have no choice but to follow his orders and to begin getting your fleet ready for the next attack.
[Take good care of this fleet, because it will have to last you for the rest of this campaign: if ships are disabled, board them to "repair" them once the battle is over. And, when jumping into battle, remember that you can hold down the jump key to get all your ships ready to jump simultaneously, so no single ship enters the system first and bears the brunt of the enemy fire.]
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Katya is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
The Vega system is eerily deserted. You suspect that the Navy must have pulled back all available ships to defend Earth, rather than trying to fight you here. You try not to think about how massive the fleet there must be, and how slim your chances are of destroying it.
	Katya says, "Well, this is it, the final assault. Meet me in the spaceport when you're ready for the attack on Earth."
<planet> is under attack by ships of an unknown type. Drive them off, and then return to the planet to figure out what to do next.
Once you have gathered in the spaceport with the captains in charge of your fleet, Katya contacts Tomek and asks for instructions. He says, "A Wolf Pack fleet should arrive there shortly. They're carrying all the nukes we had left. They will go in first and--"
	Abruptly, his voice cuts off in a burst of static. "What the hell?" says Katya. She tries to reestablish a connection to Tomek, but is unable to. Confused, she says, "What's going on? Is the Navy destroying the hyperspace communications relays, now? Or jamming them somehow?"
	One of the communications technicians says, "They must've taken out the relays. I can't get a signal from Earth, or Tundra, or Bourne, or, well, anywhere else, for that matter, except the Altair system, right next to this one."
	"How do the hyperspace relays work? Is there any way around them?"
	"Are you sure the signal has been cut, and not just jammed?"
	"Only if you want to communicate at the speed of light," says the technician, "and in that case you'd need to wait a few years to get a message out to Tomek. So no, there is not any way around the relays. They're essential to the galactic communications network, which is why even at the worst parts of this war we've never seriously considered destroying them."
	"I don't know of any technology that could jam them," says the technician. "It's possible, but I think the more likely explanation is that they've been destroyed. Which is crazy, because the entire galactic communications network depends on them. Even at the worst parts of this war we've never seriously considered destroying them."
	Just then, another militia officer runs into the room. "We're under attack!" he says. "We need every ship in our fleet in orbit, right now!"
	"Who is attacking us? The Navy?"
	"Have the Wolf Pack reinforcements arrived yet?"
	"No," he says. "I've never seen ships like these before in my life. The Wolf Pack reinforcements just arrived in orbit, and a second later, these ships appeared and started slicing them to ribbons. If you don't get your fleet up there, there won't be anything left of them."
	"Yes," he says, "and a second after they arrived, this other fleet of ships appeared, unlike any ships I've ever seen before. They're tearing the Wolf Pack fleet to ribbons. If you don't get up there immediately, none of them will be left alive."
	You hurry to your ship and fire it up for a hasty launch...
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still alien ships circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
Investigate <system>
This area of space has somehow been cut off from the rest of the galaxy. Visit <planet> to see if they, too, have been invaded by the aliens.
The spaceport is in chaos. You eventually find Katya and report that the alien invasion fleet has been destroyed, but at a steep cost. "I'm sure we'll come to regret those losses deeply," she says. "The Wolf Pack nukes were all spent to repel that assault. And based on what we've found out here, we aren't going to be receiving reinforcements any time soon. We've somehow been cut off from the rest of human space."
	"How is that possible?"
	"Do we have any idea who these aliens are?"
	"I have no idea," she says, "but the aliens must have the ability to collapse hyperspace links. That's why our communications were cut. It wasn't the relays that were destroyed, it was the hyperspace pathways themselves. And meanwhile, some new links have appeared, to here." She points on your map to a star that, until now, had been completely inaccessible via hyperspace. "Deneb. That must be where the aliens came from."
	"We have no idea," she says. "But, they appear to have the ability to destroy hyperspace links. That's why our communications went dead; it wasn't the relays we lost, it was the pathways themselves. And, they are apparently able to create new links as well." She points to a galactic map that she had been examining when you came in; several links have been scribbled out and new ones have been drawn in. "This is the star we call Deneb," she says, pointing to a star that, until now, had been inaccessible via hyperspace. "This must be where they came from."
	"What do we do now?" you ask.
	"Well," she says, "to start out with, we need more information. I'm hoping you can somehow get past the aliens and land on <planet>, and see if they were attacked too and if so, whether anyone is still alive there. I'll stay here with the rest of the Wolf Pack in case we need to repel another attack."
Report to Katya
You met someone on Shiver who was able to give you more information about the aliens and their intentions. Report back to Katya with what you discovered.
When you land at the spaceport on <origin>, you find no evidence of violent struggle; merchant captains are walking around freely, haggling for commodities, and conversing with each other just like in any other spaceport you have visited. However, the spaceport is also being patrolled by small groups of slender, bipedal, pale-skinned aliens. Each one is holding a metal staff that looks like some sort of weapon, but none of them move to attack you.
	Soon after you land, you spot a man making his way towards your ship, ducking behind other ships and crates every time a group of aliens looks in his direction. If he is some sort of fugitive from them, it might be unwise to throw your lot in with him. On the other hand, he could have valuable information for you.
	(Stay around and talk to him.)
	(Take off before I draw the aliens' attention.)
	You start to get ready to take off, but he gestures urgently to you. Reluctantly, you decide to wait and hear what he has to say.
	You open your ship's hatch and allow him to come on board. "What's going on here?" you ask. "Who are these aliens?"
	"I'm a planet-dweller," he says, "so the first I heard of it was when these ships unlike anything I'd ever seen before came down out of the sky, and hovered over the spaceport. Then they began transmitting radio messages on all frequencies, saying that this world is now a part of the Pug Protectorate, and that we must refrain from violence and give them a portion of the goods our world produces."
	"Did anyone try to resist them?"
	"What do you think their intentions are?"
	"Did they explain why they cut you off from the rest of the galaxy?"
	"A few. Their ships aren't invulnerable; a merchant in an Argosy managed to take out one of their smaller ships when it was landed with its shields down, before they blew his ship out of the air in retaliation. And those staffs they're carrying shoot some kind of stun ray, but if you cut them, they bleed, same as any other creature." He pauses, then taps the knife that is holstered at his belt and says, "Except, they bleed blue. Pale milky blue."
	"Well, they want our resources, of course. And, they say they have come to bring a new era of peace and an end to all violence and conflict. I don't buy it, though; they saw that humanity was too divided to resist them, and they seized the opportunity to invade and plunder us. It's that simple."
	"I'd think that would be obvious. With the hyperspace links cut, there's no way for anyone from outside to assist us. And they struck at a part of human space without much in the way of militias or bounty hunters or Navy protection. And the few half-decent warships that happened to be in system when they attacked have already been destroyed trying to fight them."
	You thank him for the information, and prepare to return to the <system> system to talk with Katya. Perhaps the fact that the aliens are no longer attacking you means you can negotiate some sort of truce.
Visit the Pug
Locate the Pug homeworld, which is presumably in the <system> system, and see if you can negotiate with them.
You need to have a bunk free for Katya to continue with the next mission. Complete or abort whatever mission is using up all your passenger space, then return here to <origin>.
You report to Katya that the alien ships did not attack you on your trip to Shiver and back, and that the locals there seem to have consented to be governed by the aliens in exchange for peace. "We haven't had any further attacks here," she says. "Do you think it's safe to try to visit the alien home world?"
	"I think as long as we don't attack them, they won't attack us."
	"No, but I do want to get answers from them, and that may be the only way."
	"I'm not so sure," she says. "After all, they did attack us once before. And from what I hear from the Wolf Pack captains, the aliens were the ones who fired first. On the other hand, I don't think we have much choice, unless we want to settle down and spend the rest of our lives as alien vassals, cut off from all our friends in the rest of the galaxy."
	"Agreed," she says. "They may choose to destroy us, but it's not like we have any other options. I don't particularly want to settle down and spend the rest of our lives as alien vassals, cut off from all our friends in the rest of the galaxy."
	Katya boards your ship, and you get ready for a diplomatic visit to the alien homeworld.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Katya hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
This planet is clearly one of the native Pug worlds, and not a human world that has been occupied. The architecture is entirely alien, and you see no human ships or people here, only the aliens. But, it appears to be mostly a world for mining and factories; all the aliens are busy with their work, and none seem to speak your language or have any interest in talking with you; instead they gesture towards the sky, perhaps as a way of indicating that you should visit the other Pug planet in this system.
Visit <destination>, which was part of Free Worlds territory before the alien invasion, and see if any military equipment is still available there.
The Pug are aliens with barrel-shaped bodies, spindly legs, and milky blue blood. They claim to have intervened in the human civil war purely for the sake of preventing more bloodshed and helping humans to live together in peace.
This is an entirely alien world. The buildings have strangely flowing, tapered shapes not unlike the Pug starships, and from orbit you count dozens of large cities covering a large portion of the land mass. If this were a human world, you would estimate its population at over a billion. You follow one of the Pug ships that is landing, and discover a large spaceport where a surprising number of human merchant ships are parked, in addition to the aliens.
	Elsewhere they have mostly ignored you, but here your ship is quickly approached by a small group of the pale-skinned, delicate aliens. The Pug are oddly proportioned, with long arms and legs but short, barrel-shaped torsos and large heads, and although they only have two legs, their gait is vaguely insectoid. "You are the ones who resisted us," one of them says. "You are not pledged to the Protectorate. Do you wish to make your vow of loyalty and peacefulness at this time?"
	"No, we are here to find out why you attacked us, and to demand that you leave us alone."
	"We are willing to make peace, but only if you give us back control of our star systems."
	"We have no wish to harm you," says the alien. "In time you will come to recognize that. We intervened in your war only to bring peace and to keep your species from doing great harm to itself. And we must maintain control of these systems until we are certain that you will not continue fighting if the links are restored."
	"If you wish us no harm, why did you slaughter our fleet?"
	"You have no business invading our space and interfering in our affairs, regardless of your intentions."
	"The fleet that was carrying nuclear weapons, weapons of genocide? They chose violence, and so they perished by violence. That is justice."
	Katya says, "I still don't understand what makes you think you have the right to interfere in human affairs."
	"'Interfere'?" says the alien. "We have 'interfered' many times before, and always you have benefited. If you do not believe us, ask those who live in the place you call the Deep. We helped them defeat the twisted half-human beings that you created in your foolish attempts to improve your race's genetic code. We have helped keep those creatures in check in the centuries since then. And we have helped in many other ways."
	"What do you want from us in return?"
	"What are you planning to do with these systems you have occupied?"
	"We have brought peace to this region," says the alien, "and we will continue to spread peace until violence has come to an end throughout human space. That is our only desire. All that we ask in return is a portion of the goods your worlds produce, to help offset the cost of watching over and protecting so many human worlds. And after some time, we will again allow human beings autonomous control of certain parts of your territory, when you show yourselves capable of living peacefully."
	"By 'spreading peace,' do you mean occupying more systems?" asks Katya.
	"We mean bringing an end to your war and your divisions," the alien says. "Those of your worlds and your people who have shown themselves unable to live peacefully, we must govern, to teach them peace. Any who attack us, we must destroy, because we are the bringers of peace, and whoever attacks us is not on the side of peace. Now, are you prepared to pledge your loyalty?"
	"I'm sorry, but you have no right to govern us."
	"Very well, we pledge our loyalty."
	"Very well, if you are not yet ready to consent to be governed by us, we will give you more time," says the alien. "In the meantime, please do not attack our ships, or we will be forced to destroy you. Which we would regret deeply." It makes an odd gesture similar to a bow, and walks off.
	"I am pleased to hear that," it says. "In time you will come to be thankful that you were present at the beginning of this new era of peace and prosperity for your species. And do not fear for your friends in other parts of human space who are, for a time, cut off from you. You will be reunited soon, under our protection." It makes an odd gesture similar to a bow, and walks off.
	"I don't like this at all," says Katya. "Let's head to <planet> and see if any of our equipment is left there from back when it was part of the front in the war against the Republic. Maybe we can find something useful there."
Escape Pug Space
Disable one of the Pug ships, steal its jump drive, and use it to escape from their territory and report to the Free Worlds that an alien invasion is imminent.
The locals are terrified by the fact that you have decided to fight the Pug, but eventually they agree to let you land.
Just like Shiver, the spaceport on Oblivion is being patrolled by the Pug, and the locals seem to be resigned to their fate. Not surprisingly, you find that there are not many supplies left from when the main Free Worlds fleet was located here for a few days. But, at least the spaceport has a working repair shop and outfitter.
	While you are exploring the spaceport, a group of men in one of the local pubs see you walking past and gesture to you. "Hey, get in here," whispers one of them. They recognize you as a Council member, and tell you that they are leaders of a local resistance movement, biding their time and waiting for the right moment to strike back against the Pug. "Do you have a plan?" they ask.
	"Sorry, not yet."
	"We'll let you know when it's time."
	They seem disappointed that you aren't here to liberate them immediately, but you tell them to wait and not do anything foolish, for now, and they tell you how to contact them when you are ready. Back inside your ship, you and Katya talk. "It sounds like the aliens are planning to invade more systems," she says. "We need to get a warning out somehow. And the only way to do that is with a jump drive. We'll need to disable one of the alien ships, take out its jump drive, and install it on your ship. Then we can take your ship to <planet> and contact the Senate and the rest of the Council."
	"Sounds risky, but let's give it a try!"
	"Um, do we really want to risk getting the aliens mad at us?"
	"I don't think we have any other choice," she says. "Our friends out there need to know what is happening here. And maybe this, at last, will give the Navy a reason to stop fighting us and to begin working together for peace." Reluctantly, you agree.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Katya hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive. (If your escorts don't have jump drives, try parking them so that Katya will be on your flagship.)
Talk to the Navy
Freya is on <planet>, presumably in Navy custody. Travel there and see if, given the current circumstances, the Navy is willing to talk with you.
Your ship creates quite a stir when it enters the system via jump drive, and the moment you've landed Alondo is waiting outside your hatch to speak with you. "What the heck is going on?" he says. "What happened to your fleet? And how in the world did you get access to a jump drive? We asked the Quarg to sell us one, but they gave us some vague response about 'not meddling in the affairs of other species.'"
	Katya says, "We were attacked by aliens. They cut the hyperspace links. And they're likely to invade more systems. We need to warn everyone. Including the Republic and the Navy." She explains more of the situation to him, and hands him a copy of your sensor scans of the alien ships.
	Alondo says, "What do you think we should do next?"
	"We should negotiate a ceasefire with the Navy."
	"We should find a way to restore those hyperspace links."
	Alondo says, "If they believe your story about an alien invasion, that might work. After all, if humanity is threatened by aliens, surely that takes precedence over fighting us. Only trouble is, most of the Republic seems to think that when those systems disappeared, it was some new weapon the Free Worlds had discovered. They're blaming us for it. They just captured Cebalrai and Menkent back from us, and captured Freya in the process."
	"Freya?" asks Katya. "How did they manage to capture her?"
	"She was on <planet>," he says, "setting up something she called a 'graviton detector' to analyze the collapsed hyperspace link. When the Navy arrived, we told her to get out of there, but she had just had a breakthrough in her research, and all she said was, 'To hell with your war, this is more important.'" If she's still there, she may be our best hope for figuring this out.
	Alondo says, "That's what Freya was working on. As soon as your fleet disappeared, she began investigating, and she went to <planet> to set up something she called a 'graviton detector' pointed towards Vega. Right before that system was taken, she sent us a message that she had found some sort of residual trace of the link, maybe a way to reopen it."
	"Wait," says Katya, "what do you mean, 'right before the system was taken'? By whom?"
	"The Navy," says Alondo. "They think the Free Worlds is behind the disappearance of those systems. And with your fleet gone, we didn't have enough ships left to resist them. Freya could have evacuated, but she stayed behind to finish her research. I believe her exact words were, 'To hell with your war, this is more important.'" If she's still there, she may be our best hope for figuring this out.
	"Do you think the Navy is letting her continue her research?"
	"Can you contact the Navy and ask them for a ceasefire?"
	"Or maybe interrogating her," says Alondo, "in which case they've at least discovered that we're as confused as they are about the hyperspace links being cut. I think whatever we do next, we'll need Freya, and we'll need the Navy. I'll contact them and ask them not to fire on your ship. But I can't guarantee they'll let you leave once you're in their control."
	"I'll contact the Navy and tell them you're coming to negotiate, and to please not fire on your ship. That's the best I can do," says Alondo.
	You and Katya return to your ship and prepare to make a visit to <planet>. Hopefully Freya will still be there, and the Navy will let you talk to her.
Bring Freya to <planet>
Freya thinks that if she can locate the equipment the Pug used to disrupt the hyperspace links, she may be able to restore them. Take her to <planet>, while Katya stays behind in the Navy's custody.
Surprisingly, the Navy lets you land without firing on you; the fact that you entered the system via jump drive probably made a big impression on them. But when your ship lands, it is immediately surrounded by Navy troops. Hesitantly, you and Katya disembark. You are greeted by a Navy admiral who you recognize as William Danforth, the leader of the Navy Oathkeepers. Even among the Free Worlds Danforth is spoken of with respect due to his courage and levelheadedness in battle and his leadership of countless humanitarian missions.
Surprisingly, the Navy lets you land without firing on you; the fact that you entered the system via jump drive probably made a big impression on them. But when your ship lands, it is immediately surrounded by Navy troops. Hesitantly, you and Katya disembark. You are greeted by Admiral Danforth, the leader of the Oathkeepers who previously assisted you to drive the Alphas and their mercenary fleet away from Poisonwood.
	Standing next to Danforth is someone you think might be his bodyguard: a dark-skinned woman dressed entirely in black. Even the whites of her eyes are black: when she gets closer, you can see that it is actually a scleric tattoo, an intricate Celtic knotwork pattern inked into the whites of her eyes. Surprisingly, Katya recognizes her. "Raven!" says Katya. You aren't sure if Katya sounds happy to see her, or scared.
	"Hello Councilor," says the woman.
	Danforth says, "We hear you have come from the disconnected territory, and that you bring word of a potential alien invasion. Come with us, please." He ushers you into one of the Navy Cruisers that are parked nearby, and into a room you assume is his private office; the guards check you and Katya for weapons and then leave you alone with Danforth and Raven. "Now," says Danforth, "you will answer our questions."
	He gestures to Raven, who walks up to you and holds out her hands. "Take my hands, please, Captain," she says.
	(Take her hands.)
	"Um, why? What are you going to do to me?"
	"She's a Questioner, <first>," says Katya, quietly. "One of the ones who interrogated me when I was their prisoner. Just take her hands, and tell her nothing but the truth."
	Reluctantly, you take her hands, and she begins asking you questions about the aliens. You answer as truthfully as you can. Holding hands with a total stranger while she stares unblinkingly into your eyes and questions you is an uncomfortably invasive and intimate experience, heightened by your suspicion that if you tell a lie, she will somehow know. By the time she is done questioning you, you are soaked in sweat and your hands are shaking. Raven turns to Danforth and says, "They're telling the truth."
	You and Katya both breathe a sigh of relief, and Danforth says, "Very well. Let's take them to see Miss Winters."
	He leads you back out of his ship and to a warehouse where people in overalls and lab coats are busy working on one of the strangest machines you have ever seen. Freya is one of them. "Katya!" she says. "<first>! Glad you could join us."
	"Are you working for the Navy now?"
	"We heard you might have a way to reopen the hyperspace links."
	"Well," she says, "technically I'm a prisoner. But they're helping me with my research."
	Katya asks, "Have you figured out how to restore the hyperspace links?"
	"No," says Freya, "but I at least discovered it might be possible. The links aren't severed completely, you see. There's some sort of distortion signal, actively interfering with them. If we can eliminate the interference, the links might come back. But the interference is coming from the other end."
	Danforth says, "Captain <last>, we will release Miss Winters to travel with you, provided that Councilor Reynolds remains here in her place. If you succeed in restoring a hyperspace link to the disconnected systems, we will release both of them. Is that an acceptable deal?"
	"Okay, we will agree to that."
	"What if Freya can't restore the link?"
	"Then Councilor Reynolds will remain here as our prisoner," he says.
	"Go, <first>," says Katya. "It's our best chance."
	You return to your ship with Freya, who is carrying a large collection of sensors and equipment. "Let's try <planet> first," she says, "and see if there's any alien technology there that we can use. I hope you still have some ships left in your battle fleet to help defend us."
Freya found a piece of alien technology that she believes can be used to restore the hyperspace link. Hold off the Pug for long enough for her to figure out how it works.
Flying low over <planet> and hoping the Pug are not tracking you, you contact the resistance group you met earlier. Meanwhile, Freya says, "I've got an energy signal. Looks like the graviton pulses that are disrupting the hyperspace link." She gives you the coordinates, and you forward them to the resistance group. With some help from your ship's weapons, they are able to eliminate the Pug guards that are nearby.
	You land your ship, meet up with the resistance fighters, and approach the facility cautiously. "That was way too easy," says Freya. "Maybe they just didn't expect anyone to fight back against them?" The building looks vaguely like a radio transmitter, and as you get closer to it the ground seems to roll and pitch beneath your feet like the deck of a boat. "Graviton waves," says Freya. "This is it, all right. Captain, do you think you can hold off the Pug for long enough for me to figure out how this thing works?"
	"You aren't afraid that their ground troops will attack you?"
	"We can handle them," says one of the men. "As far as we know the only weapon they have is those stun sticks. Hardly a match for real bullets. Their ships are a much bigger threat."
	The resistance fighters tell you their own fleet will be launching shortly. You return to your ship and fire up the engines. Hopefully the ships that are left over from your attack fleet will be enough to hold off the Pug until Freya finishes her work down here...
	The resistance fighters tell you their own fleet will be launching shortly. You return to your ship and fire up the engines, wishing that you had managed to keep some of the ships from your attack fleet alive, and hoping you will be able to hold off the Pug until Freya finishes her work down here...
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still Pug ships circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
You receive a message from Freya: "Captain, we need you back down here. I think I discovered a way to restore the link, but we're going to have to go back to New Austria to do it, and quickly before the Pug have time to send more ships to this system. And, I hope you have space in your cargo bay for a bunch of equipment."
Return to <planet> with Freya, carrying a "graviton reflector" that Freya thinks can be used to restore the hyperspace link.
As soon as you reenter human space, you contact the Navy and tell them to send an attack fleet to the Cebalrai system. Then, just for good measure, you contact the Free Worlds and ask them to do the same.
As you are landing, Freya contacts you and says, "You're going to need ten tons of cargo space for this next mission, and a bunk for me, as well." That means you have to free up <capacity>.
You land near the alien facility, and Freya meets you outside, with a large piece of alien machinery loaded onto a flatbed truck. "I hope you have room for this in your cargo hold," she says. You notice that the ground no longer seems to be rocking irregularly like before, but you still feel slightly dizzy, like the horizon will not quite stay level.
	"What did you figure out?"
	"Is the link restored yet?"
	She says, "I couldn't figure out exactly how this technology works, but it's some sort of graviton transmitter. I was able to switch it from sending a chaotic signal, to a coherent one. In theory, that will slowly strengthen the link. But it could take years for it to reopen, and we probably only have a few days before the Pug learn what happened here and overrun this system. So, we need to go back to <planet>, the other end of the link, and set up this thing. I think it's some sort of graviton reflector." She points to the alien equipment on the truck. "With it in place, we can set up a harmonic resonance between this star system and <system>, and in theory the link will regenerate much more quickly."
	"Okay, let's give it a try!"
	"Do you actually have any idea what you're doing?"
	"None whatsoever," she says. "I'm just making this up as I go along, based on what I know of hyperspace physics. And for all I know the Pug ships carry the same hyperspace disruption capabilities as this facility, and this is all for naught. But let's give it a try, okay?"
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Freya and the graviton reflector hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Liberate <system>
Travel to the <system> system with a combined fleet of Navy and Free Worlds ships, drive off the Pug, and occupy the system so that the Pug cannot return and sever the hyperspace link again.
Although <origin> is now back under Navy control, they gladly allow your ship to land. You help Freya to set up the alien equipment and power it on. Once again you begin to feel dizzy, and the feeling slowly builds in intensity as Freya adjusts the controls. "It's working," she says. "I've got a positive feedback loop. See if you can contact Oblivion."
	You try to establish a communications link to the resistance fighters, and brief snatches of conversation come through, interspersed with static. After a few minutes the static begins to die down, and you can hear their voices more clearly. "It's working!" says Freya.
	Meanwhile, Navy and Free Worlds ships have begun pouring into the system. You suspect that the battle ahead will be a fierce one, but with a Navy war fleet on your side, it no longer feels like a hopeless cause. "The link should be strong enough for us to travel through it soon," says Freya. "Time to get back to <system>."
Drive off the Pug fleet that is invading <system>.
Your fleet lands on <planet>, and to your surprise the locals say that soon before your fleet arrived, all the Pug who were present on the planet departed; clearly they expected your arrival and had no desire to become your prisoners. You only have a few hours to take stock of the situation before the Navy informs you that they have detected another Pug fleet incoming...
Equipment from <planet>
Travel with Freya to pick up the alien equipment that you installed on <planet> and bring it to Arabia to reopen another of the hyperspace links.
When you land on <origin>, the Navy and Free Worlds crews are congratulating each other on having succeeded in resisting the alien attack. Freya says, "I guess nothing creates camaraderie faster than fighting side by side against a common enemy."
	"Yes, I hope our people don't get too comfortable viewing the Navy as allies."
	"I don't think we could have won that battle without the Navy's help. Perhaps we were wrong to think we had no need for the Republic at all."
	"Indeed," she says. "Still, it will be hard going back to fighting them once all this is over."
	"You might be right," she says. "I wonder if instead of aiming for complete independence from the Republic, all along we should have tried for something closer to what the Syndicate has: relative autonomy, but within the framework of the Republic."
	You meet up with Danforth, and he says, "Well, we have a beachhead now, but it's a fragile one. Miss Winters, do you think you can open up more of the hyperspace links?"
	Freya says, "Sure, if we retrieve the equipment from Tundra. But, the transmitter station wasn't exactly portable, so if we want to open up other systems not linked to this one, we'll have to find transmitters already installed there, too."
	Danforth says, "Let's start by trying to reestablish the connection from here to the Ascella system. If that works, I'll send part of my fleet to take Zeta Aquilae and see if they can secure another transmitter station. That would give us two routes into Pug space instead of the single bottleneck we have now. Captain <last>, would you be willing to travel back with Freya to <planet>?"
	"Sure, we can leave immediately."
	"What if the Pug attack here in the meantime?"
	"Shouldn't we just attack the Pug homeworld while we have such a big fleet here?"
	"Don't worry," he says, "Navy reinforcements are arriving constantly. Soon our fleet here will be twice as strong as the one we committed to yesterday's attack." Reluctantly, you agree to trust the defenses to him while you bring Freya back into Free space to help open more of the hyperlinks.
	"'Such a big fleet'?" he says. "This is not even a twentieth of the Navy's current fighting power. And I think we'll need many more ships before we're ready to take on the alien homeworld. But don't worry, reinforcements are arriving here constantly. You go do your part, and we'll see to ours."
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Freya is on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Equipment to <planet>
Travel with Freya to <planet> to set up the alien equipment and see if you can reopen another one of the disrupted hyperspace links.
When you land on <origin>, Freya says, "Captain, it looks like you're going to need <capacity> to continue with this mission." You should free up more space, then return here.
You land on <origin> and quickly begin packing up the alien equipment that you left here earlier. Quite a few of the locals are watching you from a distance, but they seem friendly despite the fact that their world was so recently occupied by the Free Worlds against their will. Clearly your success in opening a path for the Navy to enter the disconnected region of space has become known.
	As you are setting up the alien equipment, Freya says, "Doesn't this all seem a little too... neat, to you? I mean, that the aliens close off the hyperlinks but then for some reason leave behind the exact equipment that we need to gradually reopen them? And that the requisite technology is so simple, a transmitter and a reflector? It all fits together way too well."
	"Are you suggesting that the aliens intended for us to do exactly what we're doing?"
	"It does all seem odd, that we could have any success at all fighting a species that is apparently so sophisticated."
	She nods. "I have the uncomfortable feeling that we're caught up in a game we don't understand," she says. "And before we make the next move, we should get more information."
	"From whom?" you ask.
	"The Quarg," she says. "We're just a few jumps away from their space, and they claim to know what's going on throughout the galaxy. And when this crisis started and we asked them for a jump drive, they said they didn't want to meddle in the affairs of other species, which means maybe they knew another species was involved here."
	"Our mission is urgent. We should just continue to Arabia."
	"Okay, let's take a detour to talk with the Quarg."
	"Well," she says, "you're the captain, I'll leave that choice up to you."
	"Thanks," she says, "Let's just hope that we can get some real answers."
You land on <planet>, but you realize that Freya and the graviton reflector are on one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Visit the Quarg
If you want, visit the Quarg to see what they can tell you about the Pug, before you continue fighting them.
The Quarg claim that the Pug treat warfare like a game. When battling another species, the Pug will limit themselves to ships and weapons that are weak enough that the other species has a chance of defeating them.
You land on the Quarg station, but neither of you knows what to do next. How do you locate a Quarg diplomat? Do they even have such a thing? As you and Freya stand in the hangar looking somewhat lost, one of the Quarg approaches you and says, "These ones have questions?"
	Freya says, "We've been attacked by aliens who call themselves the Pug. We're wondering what you know about them."
	Quarg skin is normally entirely gray, as is their clothing, but several patches of skin on the Quarg's face turn red at the word "Pug." You've heard theories that this is a sign of emotion in the Quarg, but no one knows what emotion precisely. Anger? Embarrassment? The Quarg you are speaking with simply says, "Come," and leads you to a nook in one of the main hallways, where another Quarg stands behind a desk. You are struck by how little you know about this species: are you speaking to a tour guide, or to a diplomat? Is this the governor of the station, or just an expert in human languages? The Quarg behind the desk says, "Do you have questions for me?"
	"Can you help us to fight the Pug?"
	"Can you give us information about the Pug?"
	"No," it says. "Long ago we tried to resist the Pug. In retribution, they broke one of our rings." It points out the window of the station at the half-finished ringworld. "This ring is half complete, and it has taken a thousand of your years to build. The rings are our most precious creations, nearly impossible to destroy, but the Pug know how to twist and cut the fabric of space itself."
	"So you've encountered the Pug before?" asks Freya. "You know about them?"
	"The Pug have meddled with the affairs of many species in this galaxy," it says, "but they are not native to it. They came here through artificial wormholes: a technology that not even the Drak possess. Their actions are unpredictable. They are either entirely illogical, or operating on a logic so far above ours that it appears as nonsense to us. They claim it is the latter: that they operate on some special knowledge of time and future."
	"If they're so advanced, do we have any chance of defeating them?"
	"Do you think the Drak would join us in fighting them?"
	"Yes," it says. "In battle the Pug always respond with just enough force that their opponent has a fair chance at victory."
	Freya is confused. "What do you mean?" she says.
	"No," it says. "The Drak do not interfere in a war unless their rules are broken. And, it would not help you anyway; the Pug always adjust the strength of their fleet to give their opponent what they consider to be fair odds."
	"Wait," says Freya, "you're saying they would intentionally attack us with a weaker force instead of using all their strength and guaranteeing victory?"
	"War is a game to the Pug," the Quarg says. "They are a strange species. Even if they start a war, their goal may not be to win it, but to lose in a certain way. We have seen them lose battles against species far less advanced than your own, even though they had weapons that would have guaranteed them victory. If they want war, you must play their game, and if you play their game, they may allow you to win."
	"That makes no sense," says Freya. "They would die for the sake of a game?"
	The Quarg pauses for a moment as if struggling for words. "I am myself, and also I am Quarg. You are yourselves, and also you are human. But we think perhaps a Pug is Pug first, and then also itself."
	"Their identity is communal, rather than individual?" says Freya.
	"Indeed. And because they are so deeply connected, they perceive all things as being connected to them. At least, that is the best understanding we have been able to gain of their species."
	You talk for a while longer, but gain no more information of value.
Liberate <planet>
Travel to the <system> system to assist the Navy in driving out the Pug and reestablishing a direct hyperspace link to the Ascella system.
You help Freya to unload and set up the reflector equipment, then contact the Navy on Oblivion and instruct them to point the transmitter in your direction. A few minutes later Admiral Danforth contacts you. "This link appears to be returning too," he says. "So, let's move on. We're going to make an attack on the <system> system, now, and we would welcome your assistance in this battle." You leave the equipment on <origin> and return to your ship with Freya.
After a few minutes of scanning the surface of <planet>, Freya locates another transmitter station that matches the one you found on Oblivion. You contact Admiral Danforth to tell him its location, and he dispatches a crew to take control of it. He also reports to you that once again, apparently all the Pug left the planet during the course of the battle. "A pity," he says. "If we had taken prisoners, maybe we could have gotten some answers from them. Anyway, meet me in the spaceport whenever you're ready to help with our next mission."
Some of the Navy ships have been outfitted with jump drives. Travel with them to the <system> system, avoiding the main Pug fleet in their home system, and reclaim control of the planet.
You find Admiral Danforth supervising the repairs of the damaged Navy ships. "Glad you survived that battle!" he says. "These alien ships are much more advanced than ours, but we outnumber them, so now that we've established a strong beachhead I think we actually have a chance at defeating them. The only problem is, the majority of our fleet is still up north. With the Vega system cut off, our supply lines are having to go all the way around through the dirt belt. So I'd like to propose liberating Vega next."
	"That does sound like a good strategic choice."
	"How will your fleet get to Vega without traveling through the Pug home system? That system is swarming with their ships."
	Danforth says, "During the battle, we managed to salvage jump drives from a few of the Pug ships. We've installed them in three of our Carriers. Hopefully, with your help, that will be enough to overcome any resistance in the Vega system. Then Miss Winters can work her magic with the hyperlinks again, and we'll be able to bring a massive reinforcement fleet from Sol."
	"Sounds good to me," says Freya. "I wish more of our own ships had jump drives, so we could assist you."
	"Indeed," says Danforth. "That's why it's so important for Captain <last>'s ship to be part of this battle. When it's all over, I want to be able to tell Parliament that this war was won by the Free Worlds and the Navy fighting side by side every step of the way. And I hope you will be able to tell your Senate the same thing, so that they will be more amenable to a compromise between us."
	"I'm glad to hear you say that. Your fleet is so much stronger than ours that you could easily take all the credit."
	"We were the ones who discovered the aliens and the way to restore the hyperspace links. The Free Worlds deserve the real credit here."
	"I don't want the credit," he says, "I want peace." He wishes you the best of luck in your attack on Vega, and says to contact him as soon as the link is restored and the reinforcements are ready.
	"Captain," he says, "the point isn't who deserves more credit. The point is, how do we tell this story in a way that makes people on my side and on yours more willing to make peace with each other? That's all I care about." He wishes you the best of luck in your attack on Vega, and says to contact him as soon as the link is restored and the reinforcements are ready.
Travel to <planet>
Travel with Freya to <planet>, where you can set up the "graviton reflector" to restore the hyperspace link from Sol to the Pug territory. (She thinks Mars is a better option than a heavily populated planet like Earth.)
Once again, the Pug seem to have anticipated your attack and evacuated all their personnel from the planet before your arrival. It's a little disconcerting that they seem to have planned for events to unfold in exactly this way. Once again, you find one of the transmitter stations, abandoned on <origin> but still in working order, and inside the station Freya locates another one of the "reflectors" that she needs in order to complete the link. "I don't get it," she says. "They should've destroyed all this before they left."
	"Yes, I hope we're not playing into some sort of trap."
	"Well, let's just be thankful they didn't."
	"I suppose," she says. "I just don't like not understanding things, and I do not understand these aliens at all."
	"Indeed," she says. "It's hard to imagine that a species so advanced could be making so many tactical errors."
	You load the equipment onto your ship, and Freya says, "Let's set it up on <planet>, rather than Earth. I don't think the graviton radiation is harmful to human beings, but there's no point in placing it on such a densely populated planet."
Return to <planet>, and join the Navy fleet in preparing for an attack on the Pug home system. A Free Worlds fleet will be attacking from the south at the same time.
As soon as Freya has set up her equipment and verified that it is working, you contact Admiral Danforth. "We're on Mars," you tell him, "and we should have the hyperspace link to Vega restored soon."
	"Excellent," he says. "Please contact your Council and arrange for your fleet to strike from the south at the same time as the fleet from Vega jumps in from the north."
	You contact Tomek and tell him the Navy is ready for a final assault, and he agrees to send as many ships as he can spare to join you. Now it's time to return to <planet> and await the attack signal.
Defeat the Pug
Join the Navy fleet in attacking the Pug home system. Once their fleet is eliminated, land on their home world of <planet> to attempt to negotiate for peace.
You need at least one bunk free for Freya in order to continue this mission.
You enter the Deneb system expecting a massive Pug battle fleet to be waiting for you. Instead, it is entirely deserted. Also, your sensors are picking up some sort of anomaly outside the orbit of the outermost planet.
The tiny spaceport on Silver is packed with people as more and more Navy ships come in for a landing. The Navy admirals have decided that there is no sense in delaying: you will be launching an attack on the Pug homeworld in the morning. Despite your success so far in battling the Pug, you know that if their entire fleet opposes you, even the Navy may not be strong enough to defeat them. This may be the last time you see many of these officers and crew members alive.
	Everyone prepares for death in different ways. The spaceport's pub is packed, with the crowd spilling out into the hallway and loud music blasting. The chapel is equally full, and the sound of whispered prayers and chanting clashes with the dance music from the pub. Through the doorway of the chapel you see some people sitting cross-legged on the floor and others kneeling on prayer rugs, as the various cultures that make up the Republic do their best to share the space.
	You find Freya sitting in a secluded nook on the upper floor of the spaceport building, watching the stars and the drifting sand out the window. "Ready for the last battle, Captain?" she asks.
	"Sure, with the Navy at our backs I think we've got a good chance."
	"As ready as I'll ever be, I guess."
	She laughs. "I suppose that's the best we can hope for. Do you mind if I ride in your ship tomorrow, rather than one of the others? If this is the end, I'd rather face it with people I know." You agree. She turns back to look out the window.
	Since Freya seems to want to be alone, you return downstairs, and discover that a sizeable Oathkeeper fleet has arrived. In the main vestibule of the spaceport, an Oathkeeper officer is leading a group in qigong meditation. And surprisingly, you spot Admiral Danforth sitting with the Muslim prayer group and chanting in fluent Arabic. Meanwhile, the party outside the pub continues.
	Eventually morning comes, and you prepare your ship for the assault on the Pug homeworld...
The Pug disappeared from human space, and left behind more questions than answers. It is possible that the true purpose of their attack was to give human beings a common enemy that would force them to band together and forget their internal struggles.
As you bring your fleet in for a landing, you find that the main Pug spaceport is surprisingly empty. However, a group of Pug children are gathered in a loose circle on one of the landing pads. They appear to be playing some sort of game; they ignore your fleet overhead.
	(Avoid harming them and land.)
	You fire a single shot into the center of the circle, leaving a dark scar on the landing pad and sending a plume of dust and smoke into the air. The children continue their game, as if nothing has happened.
	You land your ship near the circle of Pug children. They are bouncing a ball back and forth between them, and studiously ignoring your presence. Aside from the sound of the ball striking the pavement, the entire city is eerily quiet. "This is really weird," says Freya.
	(Explore the city.)
	(Join the game.)
	You step into the circle and make a grab for the ball, but it passes straight through your fingers. Freya reaches out to touch one of the children, and her hand, too, passes through them. "Some sort of holographic projection," she says.
	The Navy ships are beginning to land and send crew out to explore. You and Freya walk into the city, passing by a pair of adult Pug who sit at a table outside what looks like some sort of cafe, playing a board game with black and white stones on a hexagonal grid. You check and find that they, too, are a holographic illusion.
	The Navy ships are beginning to land and send crew out to explore. You and Freya walk into the city. The streets are mostly deserted, but on one of them you pass by a pair of adult Pug who sit at a table outside what looks like some sort of cafe, playing a board game with black and white stones on a hexagonal grid.
	(Try to talk to them.)
	You throw a punch at one of the Pug at the table, but your fist passes right through its head as if nothing is there. Surprised, Freya reaches out to touch the other one, and again her hand passes through them. "Some sort of holographic projection," she says. You continue exploring.
	You try to talk to the Pug, but they, like the children, are ignoring you completely; they do not even seem to be aware of your existence. Finally, Freya reaches out to shake one of them by the shoulder, and her hand passes straight through it. Surprised, she waves her hands back and forth through both of them. "Some sort of holographic projection," she says.
	You continue to explore for a while. Aside from the illusions, the city seems to be deserted. "Let's check inside one of the houses," Freya says at last. You climb up the steps to what looks like an apartment building and find that all the doors are unlocked. Inside one of the living spaces, you explore the different rooms and find that the water fixtures and electricity are working, but a thick layer of dust covers everything. Freya, meanwhile, is staring at one of the electrical outlets. "<first>," she says, "do you see anything odd about this?"
	"No, it's just an ordinary electric outlet."
	"Everything here is odd. The city, the holograms, all of it."
	She says, "It's an ordinary, human style electrical outlet. Human. In an alien city. And the steps we came up to get here: the Pug have legs half again as long as ours. But the tread spacing was at the normal human height. This building wasn't made for the Pug. It was made for us."
	Reports begin coming in as the Navy explores the rest of the planet, and they are all finding the same thing: the cities are abandoned, many of them with signs that they were never inhabited in the first place. The first time you visited this planet, you thought it must have a billion inhabitants, but now it seems that its true population was less than a million - all of whom have apparently departed to somewhere beyond the wormhole.
	Freya says, "Let's get back to the spaceport and meet up with the admirals."
Talk to Parliament
Travel to Earth for another meeting with Parliament. Alondo and Katya will meet you there. (Hopefully it will go better than your last visit.)
You find Admiral Danforth inspecting the Pug spaceport. "This is all very odd," he says. "I'm glad the aliens appear to have left, but I wish we knew where they came from and whether they're likely to return."
	Freya says, "What should we do now?"
	"I've contacted New Austria and told them that Councilor Reynolds is free to leave," he says. "She told me that your Senate has agreed to the Free Worlds being a semi-autonomous district of the Republic, similar to the Syndicate systems. She also asked that you and Captain <last> meet up with her and Alondo Gruyere on Earth, where they will be meeting with Parliament. I sent a report to Earth that places a very heavy emphasis on the role that the Free Worlds played in this victory, so Parliament ought to be quite willing to negotiate with you."
	"Thank you. It's been an honor to fight alongside you."
	"Last time we visited Parliament, they violated our safe passage agreement and put us on trial."
	"No, the honor has been mine," he says. "Feel free to drop by and visit me on Farpoint any time you're in the area."
	"Trust me," he says, "you won't need to worry about that this time around. Having an alien attack so close to Earth be thwarted through the assistance of the Free Worlds has put Parliament in a very... receptive mood. Good luck, Captain <last>, and I hope our paths will cross again."
Tensions between the Free Worlds and the Republic mounted when additional systems decided to leave the Republic and join the Free Worlds culminating in a series of military confrontations, that ended when the Pug invaded human space. After humanity united to drive out the Pug invaders, the Republic officially granted the Free Worlds autonomy.
You arrive in the Parliament building just as Alondo and Katya have finished meeting with them. "Good news," says Katya. "We're all officially pardoned. And you, Captain <last>, have become something of a hero."
	"Better yet," says Alondo, "the war with the Republic is over. We agreed to limiting our territory to its current size, and to a very minor tax to cover the cost of Navy protection if the aliens attack again or some other major catastrophe strikes. In return, the Free Worlds have been granted autonomy from the Republic."
	"Also," says Katya, "as their own expression of gratitude, the Syndicate members of Parliament have offered to make some of their new technology, developed during the war, available to us at an affordable price."
	"That's very generous of them."
	"I wonder if that's their way of buying our support and keeping us quiet about the supposed defector."
	"Maybe so," says Alondo. "The CEO of the Syndicate, Alastair Korban, is also resigning. Perhaps the events are related. In other news, now that the war has ended, and the Pug have been defeated, the Senate has voted to dissolve the Council, leaving us free to return to civilian life. However, they've also agreed to pay you, <first>, a reduced salary in honor of your service. So, what do you think you will do next?"
	"Build a merchant fleet and live a safe, quiet life."
	"See if folks in the fringe worlds need any help against the pirates."
	"Use my jump drive to explore beyond human space."
	"Well, we all wish you the best of luck," says Freya. "We would never have won this war without you. Be sure to stay in touch." You hug each of them goodbye, and return to your ship. What you do next is up to you...
When trying to cram as many high-powered outfits as possible into a ship, occasionally you reach the point where it is sporadically overheating and shutting down. In that case, you may need to install one of these.
This system is a step up from ordinary Cooling Ducts; it circulates water in between an external radiator and your ship's hottest internal components to keep them from overheating.
For ships with extreme cooling needs, liquid nitrogen is the answer. One of these coolers will dissipate the heat produced by anything but the heaviest of armaments.
Liquid helium is the ultimate in cooling technology. Given how much space this cooling system takes up, you may be better off just installing more efficient, low-heat components instead, but where that is not an option, this cooler can handle almost anything you throw at it.
This is the standard shield generator for fighters and interceptors, as well as for many non-combat starships. Although it is possible for a ship to have no shield generator at all, recharging its shield matrix only when landed in a hospitable spaceport, life in deep space is unpredictable enough that most pilots find shield generators to be well worth the space they take up.
This is a slightly more powerful shield generator than the standard model installed in most small ships. If combat lasts long enough, the increased recharge rate is enough to give you an edge, but recharging your shields completely will still take a long time.
This is a more powerful shield generator designed for ships that are likely to see frequent combat, or that have such a large shield capacity that recharging them would take a long time with a smaller generator.
This shield generator is powerful enough that in combat against some particularly weak ships, they may not even be capable of depleting your shields as fast as they recharge.
This is the most powerful shield generator available in human space. Because of their large size, D94-YV Shield Generators are mostly used in large warships, but you can fit one in a smaller ship if you are willing to sacrifice engine power or weaponry to make space for it.
A shield regenerator works by subtly modifying the geometry of your shield matrix in order to make your shields more malleable and therefore much easier to recharge. Unfortunately, this causes your shields to also become less efficient, which draws energy away from your other systems, even when not charging shields, and creates heat.
The S-970 Shield Regenerator is an advanced type of shield recharging technology. Unfortunately, its power needs are rather high, and the shifts it makes in your shield configuration also result in some feedback that causes heat to build up in the regenerator, even when your shields are at full strength.
This radar jammer is designed to interfere with Sidewinders and any other missiles that rely on radar for tracking their targets. Jamming will occasionally cause missiles to lose their target locks.
This high-power radar jammer will make it much more difficult for missiles that rely on radar to track you. It will not affect missiles that track you optically or that look for your ship's heat signature.
In the early days of space exploration, when ships could travel through half a dozen systems before encountering an established colony where they could refuel, ramscoops were an essential piece of equipment, harvesting plasma from the solar wind to refill your hyperspace fuel tanks. Although you can install more than one ramscoop, additional ramscoops on a single ship are not as effective as the first.
	Different kinds of stars will generate varying levels of fuel in the solar wind, but in all cases the closer you are to the star, the faster fuel will accumulate. As a safety measure, all ships are able to harvest tiny amounts of fuel by flying close to a star, but this outfit allows you to accumulate fuel much more quickly.
Ramscoop technology has been almost unchanged for centuries, because with nearly every system in human space settled there has not been a pressing need for ships to generate their own fuel. But with the Free Worlds war making travel once again more difficult, some engineers in the Deep recently invented a much-improved ramscoop for use in their merchant fleets.
This mysterious box sits quietly at the heart of your ship, thinking its own inscrutable thoughts. When it comes time to travel between the stars it sets off a nuclear fusion reaction powerful enough to level an entire city, and then somehow tucks the resulting explosion in between the folds of regular space-time like a wasp stinging an oak leaf to lay her eggs inside. Your ship rides the resulting ripple in the fabric of space.
	They say that fewer than a dozen human beings alive today understand the inner workings of the hyperdrive.
A scram drive is a specially designed hyperdrive that works even if your ship is traveling at a much higher speed, at the expense of using more fuel. If you are being pursued by pirates (or just want to get somewhere in a hurry) that extra bit of speed can make a big difference.
The workings of the jump drive are a total mystery. The best that human scientists have been able to find out is that this device is a containment field for matter in a state that cannot normally exist in this universe; if the drive is opened up, the field collapses and its contents disappear. Therefore, even though a few jump drives have been captured over the years, it has so far proved impossible to reverse engineer them.
The workings of the jump drive are a total mystery, especially now that this drive seems completely mangled. It is no longer functional in any way. It may, however, still hold some research potential.
This scanner allows you to scan the cargo holds of the ship you are currently targeting, as long as you are flying close enough to it. Patrol craft use cargo scanners to detect illegal contraband. Installing more than one increases the scan range and speed.
This scanner allows you to determine what outfits are installed in the ship you are currently targeting, if you are willing to risk flying close enough to it to get a reading! The Republic Navy uses these scanners to detect when ships are equipped with illegal weaponry. Installing more than one increases the scan range and speed.
This highly specialized scanning system can analyze the mineral composition of nearby asteroids and identify the ones that contain valuable materials.
A tactical scanner allows your ship to determine the fuel, energy, heat, and crew complement of nearby targets. For centuries tactical scanners were only employed by the Navy, but recently Kraz Cybernetics has begun manufacturing them for use by militia ships.
This is Navy technology, a collection of scanners designed to fit perfectly inside one of their surveillance drones. Since the outputs are fairly standard, you could connect it to your own ship's systems if you want. Installing more than one increases the scan range and speed.
You're sure the cloaking device is here somewhere, but you can't see it.
This expansion allows you to sacrifice some cargo space in order to make room for more outfits, in situations where you need just a bit more space to install a particular system. It does not increase your weapon or engine space.
	Unfortunately, rearranging the interior of your ship in such a fundamental way tends to interfere with its cooling systems.
If being able to carry more cargo is more important to you than having advanced weapons or other systems, a cargo expansion will significantly increase the size of your cargo hold.
If you really want to make space for a few more passengers (or crew members, if you're trying to capture other ships), you can expand the living space of your ship into the area usually reserved for outfits.
Captains who do not care particularly much about the comfort of their passengers or crew can usually find a way to shove a bunk bed in behind the power generator or to hang a few hammocks from the engines as a makeshift way to make space for more people.
With the addition of some reinforced doors, locks, and security systems, any ship's passenger compartment can be turned into a brig. This makes it suitable for transporting criminals and prisoners, or participating in the highly illegal galactic slave trade. These cells are often found on ships owned by bounty hunters, pirates, and of course, the Republic's interstellar law enforcement.
Most deep space voyages involve a certain amount of passenger discomfort. With the addition of a few extra fresh water tanks, private bathrooms, wooden fixtures, and some hospitality staff, any ship can be made attractive to a significantly higher - and better paying - class of passenger.
A fuel pod increases your fuel capacity, allowing your ship to make one additional hyperspace jump before it needs to land and refuel.
If you're in the habit of carrying illegal cargo or outfits, this plating increases the odds that a scan of your ship will fail to detect it. The more of these you install, the better your chances of evading detection. It even helps against scans at spaceports, so you can more reliably land to refuel without getting caught.
A laser rifle is a step up from the sidearms that crew members typically carry for defense against pirates: more powerful, and more accurate as well. For each of these rifles that one of your crew is wielding, your odds of capturing another ship or defending your own ship from boarders are increased substantially.
Fragmentation grenades are an only marginally legal weapon for hand-to-hand combat when boarding a ship, useful for flushing out defenders who are hunkered down in defensible choke points inside their own ship. They are much less useful as a defensive weapon, but still better than nothing.
This is a specially designed barricade, which can be installed in the hallways of your ship as a powerful defense against anyone who boards you in an attempt to take over your ship.
This is a highly illegal weapon for hand-to-hand combat when boarding an enemy ship. Because chemical weapons are banned by interstellar law, you can be severely fined for getting caught in possession of nerve gas canisters. But, they do clear out an enemy ship quicker than just about anything else...
"Puny"
A poodle you rescued from a dubious racing complex on Freedom. She appears to have formed a strong bond with you, willing to stick by your side.
	Her history matches with Pookie's, but Pookie's owner claimed that Puny was not hers. Puny is also vastly less urine-prone; you suspect that the race organizers may have toilet-trained her.
A strange glowing stone gifted to you by the Skadenga. It lacks any power source, yet is quite cold.
This data chip contains complete information on the twelve star systems closest to this one: planets, ports, governments, trade prices, available services, etc. You can get all the same information just by exploring those systems yourself, but having a map can save you from making wrong turns if you are trying to travel through new territory to reach a certain system quickly.
For much of the Republic's nearly three century long history, being able to pilot your own starship was limited only by your ability to purchase one. But at the turn of the millennium in an attempt to increase tax revenue, the Republic Parliament passed a law requiring that all ship captains purchase a pilot's license, and for no small fee at that. Needless to say, this policy is not terribly popular with freelance merchant captains.
It is unusual, but not unheard of, for private citizens to be given the right to purchase Navy ships for their own private use. Recently, certain rich worlds have also begun petitioning Parliament for special permission to purchase Navy warships for their private security forces.
It is a particularly rare occurrence for a Navy Auxiliary, of any kind, to be owned for private use.
This is the standard issue license for all pilots that have enlisted in a local militia, but with the formation of the Free Worlds it has also become a license given to all those that fight for the Free Worlds cause, allowing pilots to fly the colors of the Free Worlds and purchase unique ships that the fledgling government has developed.
You look closely at the silhouette of the ship on the license, but you can't make out what model of ship it is. Perhaps it is an older city-ship, one of the first that carried humanity to greatness among the stars.
Pick up Ijs from <planet>
Bring Katya and Sawyer to <destination>, along with Raven's ship (the Eye of Horus), and pick up Ijs and his equipment for detecting atomic testing.
You have reached <planet>, but you left Raven's ship behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Raven, whose full name is unknown, is a Questioner who works for Navy Intelligence. Through some combination of training and natural ability, she is able to reliably detect whether or not someone is telling the truth.
It is unclear why the Navy needs their own intelligence force, since the Republic already has a Department of Intelligence that is incredibly powerful and well-funded. Rumors say that one of the main purposes of Navy Intelligence is to watch for human rights abuses being committed by the Republic itself and for other questionable activities that the Department of Intelligence might turn a blind eye toward or even collude with.
On your way to the spaceport, you fill Katya in on the state of the war. She says that Intelligence has been keeping her in a relatively comfortable but totally isolated cell; she's not even sure what world it was on. From the fact that her questioners seemed to be growing increasingly frustrated about the Free Worlds, she knew that you were still managing to resist the Navy, but they did not share any details with her.
	You meet up with Raven in a small tea shop, close enough to the spaceport that the tables shake each time another Free Worlds capital ship arrives in response to the Syndicate attack. "Thank you for allowing me to land here," says Raven. "Now, what questions do you have for me?"
	"Are we at peace with the Republic now?"
	"Are you some sort of mind reader?"
	"What exactly is the job of Navy Intelligence?"
	"Well," she says, "only Parliament can decide that. But the Navy has been ordered not to attack Free Worlds ships, and the news that Sawyer brought has become public knowledge, so you'll find that most Republic worlds will be willing to welcome you, now."
	She laughs, and says, "No, I'm just a really good listener." When she sees that you're not satisfied with that answer, she elaborates. "The official term for us is 'empaths.' We have a heightened ability to absorb the emotional state of those around us. That, combined with extensive training, makes us better lie detectors than any machine. But if you're asking whether my abilities work through body language and vocal cues, or through some sort of mystical powers, honestly none of us knows that for sure."
	She says, "I assume your real question is, why does Navy Intelligence exist at all, since the Republic already has a very powerful, well-funded, and nearly omniscient Department of Intelligence that exists independent of the Navy? The short answer is, we don't trust them. Someone needs to watch the watchers."
	Katya asks, "What do we do now? Will Sawyer's evidence be enough to end this war?"
	Raven says, "Possibly. Especially because the Syndicate incriminated themselves by chasing after him. But the Syndicate has so much power in Parliament that the more evidence we can collect, the better. And that means we should visit the world where he said the development was done, and look for more evidence there."
	Katya says, "Captain <last>, is Ijs Springborn still working for the Free Worlds?"
	You tell her that the last you heard, Ijs was helping to found a new university on <planet>. She says, "We should bring him with us. Raven, will you be traveling with us too?"
	"Yes," she says. "I'll tell my ship and crew to get ready."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Katya and Sawyer hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Bring Ijs, Sawyer, and Katya to <system>. Destroy any Syndicate ships that are watching you, then land on <planet>. Make sure Raven's ship arrives there as well. You may need to bribe Syndicate worlds to let you refuel.
You need another bunk free (for Ijs) in order to continue this mission.
The moment you land Katya is eager to visit the Conservatory and find Ijs. In the time that he has been here, it has grown into a small but bustling community, with crowds of students walking from building to building carrying backpacks and wrapped in thick coats. You find Ijs' office; Katya knocks and says, "Professor Springborn, are you having office hours right now?"
	He recognizes her voice immediately and comes running out of the office to hug her. "Katya! You're free! Is the war over?"
	"Not quite," she says, "but we've found the bombers. Apparently the whole thing was sponsored by the Syndicate. Do you still have those isotopic fingerprints we collected back when this whole thing began?"
	Ijs quickly finds the data and collects his equipment. "I'll just have to let them know I need a substitute for a while," he says.
	Back at the spaceport, you meet up with Raven. "Here's the deal," she says. "We need to get to <planet>, destroy any Syndicate ships that are watching, and then land and hope we have time to collect evidence before more of them arrive. Unless you've got a ramscoop, we may need to bribe our way onto a few Syndicate worlds to refuel. And of course, I'll be counting on you to help keep my ship safe. Any questions?"
	"No, I'm ready to go!"
	"Won't they have destroyed any evidence long before we get there?"
	"Probably," she says, "but if they did any testing there, we should be able to pick up the residue. Or at least, my people will be able to, because they've got military grade Navy equipment."
	"So do we," says Ijs, sheepishly.
	Raven looks surprised for a moment, then says, "Never mind, I'm sure there's a good story of how you got your hands on that equipment, but it can wait for another time. Let's get moving."
You have reached <planet>, but you've either left Raven's ship behind, or failed to destroy some of the Syndicate ships watching you.
Bring evidence to <planet>
Travel to <planet>, without you or Raven being killed by the Syndicate, to present your evidence and Sawyer's confession to Parliament.
You skim low over the surface of <origin>, with the airlock slightly open to allow Ijs to collect atmospheric samples. He's dressed in a pressure suit, and over the suit's radio he says, "Any residue that's here will be very faint. Just a few more minutes."
	Sawyer directs you to the site where the secret development took place. Nothing is left but a wide and slightly overgrown clearing. After checking your radar and seeing no incoming ships, you risk landing. Sawyer says that there were buildings here a few years ago, but now not even their foundations remain, and a sensor sweep for metallic objects turns up nothing, not even as small as a single nail.
	However, Ijs points out a few subtle signs of human habitation. "A clearing like this would normally form in a fire," he says, "but notice, no fire scars on the trees on the edges of the clearing."
	Raven says, "And our geophysical radar is picking up structures underground. Several deep shafts, and rock that's been stressed and fractured by a large explosion. They did a good job of hiding everything else, but if you scar a planet that badly, it doesn't go away. The stones speak."
	As you continue inspecting the site, suddenly Raven's copilot shouts out the door of her Gunboat at you. "Syndicate ships have entered the system! We need to get back to Earth with the evidence, quickly!"
Visit to the Deep
One of the representatives from the Deep gave you a note requesting that you visit them on <destination>. Travel there with Katya, Ijs, Sawyer, and Raven.
As you came fleeing out of Syndicate space with their ships in hot pursuit, you couldn't help noticing that no Republic ships moved to help you or attack your pursuers. Apparently, they are not ready to strike the Syndicate until Parliament has made a decision. As you are waiting for Parliament to hear your evidence, Katya asks you quietly, "So, how are you feeling about our chances here?"
	"I think our evidence is undeniable. There's no way we could fail to convince them."
	"I'm worried about how much power the Syndicate has in Parliament. What if they refuse to believe us?"
	You continue to feel optimistic as Sawyer presents his story and his evidence, corroborated by the additional data collected by Ijs and by Raven's team. But as the members of Parliament begin questioning Sawyer, nearly all their questions sound more like an attack on him than an attempt to learn more about the Syndicate's involvement in the terrorist attacks.
	Your pessimism turns out to be justified. The hearing begins well enough, with Sawyer's testimony and the additional evidence collected by Ijs and by Raven's team. But when the floor is opened for questions, nearly every question the members of Parliament ask seems intended not to get to the bottom of the terrorist plot, but to attack or discredit Sawyer.
	You can't help but realize how many people here represent Syndicate worlds. One of them, an older man, asks, "What possible reason would the Syndicate have to launch such an attack?"
	Sawyer says, "They have complex mathematical models of the galactic economy, and those models predicted a coming recession, the worst in centuries. This war forestalled that recession. From the perspective of someone who values economic growth above all else, war was a better alternative than recession."
	"That's utter nonsense," says the man. "That's the sort of absurd conspiracy theory that someone with no understanding of business would invent."
	The rest of the hearing is little better, but as you are leaving one of the representatives from the Deep shakes your hand, and you feel a piece of paper being pressed into your palm. You pocket it quietly and open it once you have returned to your ship. It says, "Visit us on Valhalla."
You receive a brief message from Alondo: "Good news, Captain! As a gesture of good faith the Navy is beginning to pull out of Rastaban and Delta Sagittarii. Those worlds will revert to our control soon. Be sure to tell the others. And, tell Katya I'm very glad she's free and am looking forward to seeing her." You pass on his message to Katya and Ijs.
Oathkeepers on Farpoint
Travel to <destination> to meet with the Navy Oathkeepers. Raven's ship will continue to travel with you.
When you land on Valhalla, a man shows up at your ship and introduces himself as Edrick Flint, the governor of Valhalla. He invites all of you to join him for dinner at his home, which turns out to be an apartment on the twenty-third floor of one of the downtown skyscrapers. There, he introduces you to several other regional governors and authorities.
	"You may be aware," Edrick says, "that the Deep was self-governing before the formation of the Republic. Indeed, during some of the darkest centuries of the space age, the Deep stood out as a beacon of civilization, a place where piracy was not tolerated and all travelers were safe. When we joined the Republic, we retained the authority to police our own territory, and that authority includes the right to track down fugitives who have fled beyond our usual jurisdiction."
	"You're suggesting a 'police action' against the Syndicate?"
	"Wait, before we talk details, are you saying that you believe Sawyer's testimony against the Syndicate?"
	"Everyone believes him," says one of the other governors, "throughout human space, and in Parliament too. We can all see that the evidence is undeniable. What people don't agree on is how to respond to that evidence."
	"We want to see justice done," says Edrick. "Our proposal is that a fleet under our jurisdiction, but joined by Free Worlds and Oathkeeper vessels, will travel into the Core and arrest at least one of the Syndicate masterminds behind the terrorist attacks. Such an action would satisfy the technical requirements of legality provided that immediately prior to the arrest, one of our courts hears Sawyer's testimony and pronounces that Syndicate individual guilty."
	"'Technically legal' sounds to me like a euphemism for 'something we know full well is going to get us into trouble.'"
	"How exactly is a fleet of warships going to travel through Syndicate space without a massive battle?"
	Ijs laughs at that. "Relax, Captain. I've been doing 'technically legal' stuff for years. It only occasionally goes disastrously wrong. But governor, if the Syndicate sees you coming, you'll need a full-scale war fleet, not just a handful of ships."
	"That's why the fleet will be composed of ships from three different organizations," says Edrick. "You will find a reason to travel to Earth with perhaps one of your fancy new Dreadnoughts as an escort. When you arrive, there will just happen to be an Oathkeeper patrol passing through the same system. And a merchant convoy from the Deep. With its own set of escorts, of course."
	"We'd need to know exactly where and on what planet our target lives, prior to entering Syndicate space," says Katya. "And, if you want to have a court trial immediately prior to the arrest, it sounds like Sawyer will need to stay here."
	"Indeed," says Edrick, "but I assure you, he is safer from the Syndicate here than anywhere else in human space, your own territory included. As for locating a target, that's why the Oathkeepers have requested that you visit them on Farpoint."
	The rest of the evening is a more casual time for conversation, with plenty of good food and wine.
	The rest of the evening is a more casual time for conversation, with plenty of good food and wine. Alondo sends you a message to inform you that Tarazed has decided to officially join the Free Worlds after having received word of the Parliament hearing, news that brings joy to Katya and Ijs.
	At one point, Edrick pulls you aside and says, "I've requested that you be granted access to some of the new technology that was developed here during the course of the war. In particular, please find space on your ship for a ramscoop; you will need it for your next mission. And also, here." He hands you a data card. "This is a copy of Sawyer's evidence, in case something happens here. Keep it very, very safe."
Travel to Stormhold
Sawyer has named several Syndicate executives who were definitely part of the plot. Travel to the lawless world of Stormhold, where you will be able to purchase information about where those executives live.
On Farpoint, you are met by none other than the famous leader of the Oathkeepers, Admiral William Danforth. Even among the Free Worlds Danforth is spoken of with respect due to his courage and levelheadedness in battle and his leadership of countless humanitarian missions.
On Farpoint, you are met by Admiral Danforth, the leader of the Oathkeepers who previously assisted you to drive the Alphas and their mercenary fleet away from Poisonwood. He is glad to see you again, and you express your sympathy over the loss of Commander Nguyen; Danforth tells you that his killer was never found.
	Ijs and Katya introduce themselves to Danforth, and Katya says, "Sir, I was a child on Hope when the colony was evacuated. Your ship carried my family to safety, and I've never forgotten how every night during our journey, you would walk through the cargo bay where we were staying and check to make sure all our needs were met. I've never had a chance before now to thank you in person."
	Danforth is surprised. "Councilor Reynolds," he says, "thank you. I followed your career in Parliament with some interest, but it is a shame that we never met in person until now. But I am glad we have this chance to work together at last."
	Raven says, "Governor Edrick mentioned a plan for tracking down the Syndicate executives who were behind the attacks in the Castor and Pollux systems."
	"Indeed," says Danforth. "Southeast of here is a region of uninhabited star systems, a sort of back entrance into Syndicate space. Few ships travel through there, because there is nowhere to refuel, but with a ramscoop or enough fuel capacity, travel is possible. One of the first inhabited worlds on the other side is the lawless world of Stormhold. There, you can surely find a contact who knows enough about the inner workings of the Syndicate to tell you the home of at least a few of our targets... for a price." He hands Katya a large stack of credit chips.
	Raven says, "I'm going to stay here with the Oathkeepers. Captain <last>, it's been a pleasure working with you. We're counting on you to fetch us this information and return here as quickly as possible."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Katya and Mr. Eyes hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Return to Farpoint
Return to <planet> with information about the whereabouts of certain Syndicate executives. Travel via the back route so that the Syndicate is not alerted to your presence.
You land near one of the small villages on Stormhold, and after handing out a few small bribes from the money Danforth gave you, finally one of the villagers recalls that a local gang of pirates is led by a former Syndicate manager. With some trepidation, you fly to his stronghold, and he agrees to "do business" with you.
	Katya shows him Sawyer's list of names. "So, these are the bad boys, huh?" he says. Clearly the news of Sawyer's revelations has spread even to this remote world. He looks through the list, and is able to tell you where three of the five men live. "I'd love to see all these bastards taken down," he says.
	You give him the rest of Danforth's money and thank him for helping you - and ask that he keep your visit secret. "No problem," he says. As you are leaving, he adds, "Also, Mister Springborn... you're my hero, man. Glad you're still finding ways to pester the Syndicate." Ijs seems pleasantly surprised to be recognized.
Defend Farpoint
Assist the Oathkeepers in defending <planet> from a pirate attack, then land back on the planet.
When you land back on Farpoint, Danforth eagerly meets you and asks what information you were able to obtain. You tell him. "So," he says, "one executive on Foundry, and one on Hephaestus. Both of those are core Syndicate planets, with billions of people on them. No way that would work. But this financial guy, Alexander Soylent... your contact says he lives on a giant yacht that sails around the ocean on Nimbus. Now, that's a much more inviting target. And from what Sawyer says, the Syndicate's financial arm were the ones who decided war would be beneficial in the first place."
	As you're talking, one of Danforth's officers runs into the room. "Sir," he says, "we're detecting a pirate fleet incoming."
	Danforth swears. "This is my real job, of course," he explains, "defending the North from pirate invasion. This isn't the first attack we've had to repulse, and lately Parliament has been finding reasons to reassign my best ships elsewhere. Captain <last>, would you be willing to join the defense fleet? We'll finish this conversation once they've been driven off."
	You hurry to your ship and join the defenders...
You've landed on <planet>, but there are still Pirate ships circling overhead. You should take off and help finish them off.
Ambassadors from Earth
The Republic has agreed to set up an embassy to the Free Worlds. Travel to Earth to meet the ambassadors and escort them to Free space.
As you are landing, Katya tells you, "<first>, we just received a message from the Free Worlds Senate. They've arranged for a Republic embassy to be set up on Bourne, and a Free Worlds embassy on Earth. We've been asked to meet the ambassadors on Earth and escort them to Bourne."
	A few minutes later, Admiral Danforth arrives at your ship. "Captain <last>," he says, "I'd like to thank you for your assistance." He hands you a million-credit chip.
	"Thank you, sir."
	"Wow, this is the biggest planetary defense bounty I've ever heard of."
	"That's purely for you as a private captain, to compensate you for your assistance," he says. "I wouldn't want you to think that I am in any way giving financial support to the Free Worlds, since that would be illegal."
	"Of course not, sir," you say. "Thank you."
	"Don't mention it," he says, with a wink. "And now, I think it's best that you head to Earth and pick up those ambassadors. From what I hear, now that Raven is not traveling with you, people are beginning to ask questions about what this Free Worlds captain is doing flying all around Republic space unescorted."
Ambassadors to Bourne
Escort this luxury vessel carrying Republic ambassadors to the Free Worlds capital of <destination>.
Unfortunately, the Republic ambassadors turn out to match all your worst stereotypes of Republic diplomats: dressed in gaudy, impractical clothing, and carrying an absurd amount of luggage. At first you are worried about whether you have enough space for them, but one of them explains that they would not dream of traveling in your dirty old ship; they will be traveling in style, in a Star Queen luxury liner, and your only duty is to ensure their safety. You have little choice but to acquiesce, even though you think they would be far safer on your own ship.
Katya and Ijs to <planet>
Bring Katya and Ijs to <destination> for a well-deserved sabbatical. Then you will be free to spend some time upgrading your ship while you wait for the Senate to select a team of ambassadors.
From the way Alondo's eyes light up when he sees Katya, you can tell that all he wants to do right now is to get caught up with her and celebrate her freedom. But he plays the part of a good diplomat, escorting the Republic ambassadors to their new quarters. Along the way he makes pleasant small talk with them, complimenting their style and sophistication. Knowing him as well as you do, you can tell he is saving up his more scathing comments about them until they are out of earshot.
	The moment they are dealt with he gives Katya a hug and says, "Katya! So good to have you back with us. The Council has five members once more. I assume you've been told about Tomek's... departure, and <first>'s promotion?" She nods.
	Alondo says, "Unfortunately, we don't have any ambassadors of our own picked out yet. The Senate insists on selecting them, and you wouldn't believe how slowly Senate deliberations move. They've interviewed half a dozen candidates so far, and found none to their liking. It pains me to say this, but we may have succeeded in creating a bureaucracy every bit as inefficient as the one we rebelled against."
	"No problem. The important thing is, we're at peace, so their decisions can take as long as they need to."
	"Have you volunteered to be one of the ambassadors? You're an obvious choice."
	"What do we do while we're waiting?"
	"At peace for now," says Ijs, "but so far a peace without justice. When the time is ripe, we will strike against the Syndicate."
	Alondo laughs. "No, that's no work for me," he says. "The ambassadors, as prestigious as their role may seem, are little more than a symbolic gesture. And being cooped up in an embassy on a single planet while things of importance are taking place elsewhere is hardly a job I aspire to."
	"So, what will we do while we're waiting for the Senate to pick the ambassadors?" you ask.
	Alondo says, "We should use this time of peace well, to prepare for another battle ahead. Those Syndicate ships on New Tibet had equipment I've never seen before, and who knows what else the Syndicate has up their sleeves - especially if they've begun producing nuclear weapons. Captain <last>, you should take this time to make sure your ship is as well armed as possible for our next strike. Ijs and Katya, what will you do with this time?"
	Katya glances at Ijs and then says, "I would certainly welcome a small sabbatical, and a chance to spend time together and catch up on all we've missed. Professor Springborn, do you think the Conservatory would extend your leave of absence long enough for us to make a trip to <planet>?"
	Ijs laughs. "That sounds wonderful, Councilor," he says. "<first>, do you think you could bring us there on your way to wherever you go next?"
	You tell him you would be glad to, and you all get ready for yet another journey together.
You drop Ijs and Katya off on Skymoot, and wish them well. They both seem eager for a chance to relax, enjoy one another's company, and forget about matters of galactic importance for a while. "We'll see you soon, <first>," says Katya. "Just be sure your ship is in good fighting shape when the time comes to bring the Syndicate to justice."
Rejoin Ijs, Katya, and Alondo on <destination>.
You receive a coded message from Alondo: "The Senate has finished selecting the ambassadors, and all is in readiness for our other work as well. Please meet us back on <planet> as soon as you can."
Ambassadors to Earth
Escort a Dreadnought carrying Free Worlds ambassadors to Earth. This Dreadnought will then take part in your combined "police action" against the Syndicate.
You do not have bunks available for Ijs and Katya. Return here when you do.
When you land on Bourne you discover that Katya and Ijs have already been back there for a week. Alondo is with them, too. "We just couldn't stay away from the action for long," says Ijs.
	The Star Queen luxury liner that brought the Earth ambassadors to Bourne is still parked in a somewhat out-of-the-way hangar. "Don't worry, Captain," says Katya, "there's no way our ambassadors would travel in something as gaudy as that. They've requisitioned a Dreadnought instead. A good ship to remind the people of Earth that we have a strong fleet of our own."
	"Not to mention," says Ijs, "a good ship to take part in our strike against the Syndicate."
	Alondo introduces you to the Free Worlds ambassadors who will be returning to Earth. "I've already contacted Governor Flint and Admiral Danforth," he says. "Their ships will be arriving in the Sol system about the same time as yours. Good luck, Captain." You help Ijs and Katya load their luggage onto your ship, and tell the Dreadnought carrying the ambassadors to be ready to follow you.
You have reached <planet>, but you left the ambassadors behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Raid on Nimbus
Travel to <destination> along with ships from the Oathkeepers, the Deep, and the Free Worlds, to capture Alexander Soylent, a Syndicate executive. Do not allow your escorts to be destroyed.
You land on Earth and make a show of being very busy ensuring that the Free Worlds ambassadors are comfortable and well cared for, until finally you receive a secure message from Edrick. He tells you that the convoy from the Deep is landing on Mars right now, and an Oathkeeper Cruiser is visiting the shipyard on Luna. As soon as you are ready, you can take off, and travel together into the heart of Syndicate space.
	You make an excuse to depart, and return to your ship. "Well," says Ijs, "this is it. If we're lucky, they won't see us coming, but no matter what, getting back out of Syndicate space will be a nightmare. Good luck, all."
You have reached <planet>, but you left one of your escorts! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Escape to <planet>
You have captured the Syndicate executive Alexander Soylent. Now, bring him safely to <planet>, where he will face trial.
As you approach the planet, your ships spread out and begin scanning the ocean surface for a yacht matching the description you were given. After a few tense moments of wondering if Soylent is off-world at the moment, you find the ship.
	With neither deflector shields nor any weaponry that you can see, the yacht clearly poses no threat to an armed starship. The Aerie that Edrick sent launches its two fighters; when they land on the yacht's deck, armed police officers emerge. Meanwhile your fleet is ready to open fire at the first sign of resistance.
	The officers soon radio you that they have found Soylent, and they bring him aboard your ship. Amid all the confusion, you notice a figure in diving gear who jumps off the rear of the yacht and disappears beneath the waves - one of Soylent's men, trying to escape. But since his leader is now in your custody, and your mission is accomplished, you see no reason to chase after him.
	The Oathkeeper captain sends you a brief message: "Your first priority is to reach the Deep with the prisoner. Our crew is prepared to serve as a rearguard, staying behind if necessary to ensure that you survive. Good luck, Captain."
There is a warning light on your ship's main control panel that has never turned on. It is a relic of the dark age of galactic travel, part of a sensor system that is built into every starship, to detect incoming nuclear warheads. You had almost forgotten it even existed, because you have never seen it flash.
	It begins flashing now.
The Syndicate is massing a fleet in the Sol system. Return to <planet> to rendezvous with the Free Worlds fleet in order to be ready to defend Earth if it is attacked.
Edrick meets you soon after you land, and oversees the transfer of your captive to a local, well-defended jail. You tell him about your narrow escape from Syndicate space, and the fact that the Syndicate used nuclear weapons against your fleet, in violation of the rules of war that humankind has abided by for centuries.
	"Unfortunately," says Edrick, "all the other witnesses to that event were allied with the Syndicate, so people will believe whatever they want to believe. Already the Syndicate is spreading stories about a renegade fleet of rebels and extremists that attacked one of their worlds in an assassination attempt on one of their leaders. Worse, they've taken this as an excuse to send a massive Syndicate fleet to the Sol system - to defend Earth from attack, they say."
	"Sounds more like the goal is to intimidate Parliament into siding with the Syndicate."
	"Are they attacking the Republic ships, or are they still technically at peace?"
	"We should attack them immediately, before they are able to harm anyone on Earth."
	"Indeed," he says.
	"Apparently no one is shooting at anyone else," says Edrick, "but that could change at any minute. You may be aware that there is very little love for the Syndicate among Navy admirals. The only thing keeping the Navy from attacking the Syndicate now is the Navy's devotion to order and obedience; they won't start a new war without Parliament's approval, and of course that approval is unlikely with Syndicate warships circling overhead."
	"That would be a terrible idea," he says. "First, it would play right into their narrative. And second, humanity is on the very brink now of shattering into half a dozen different splinters: the Deep, the Free Worlds, the Navy, the Syndicate each on their own against the rest. I don't want to be the one who gives the order that causes that to happen."
	Katya says, "It sounds like if the Free Worlds enters Sol, we'll be the spark that sets off an explosion. So, we'll have to trust the Deep, or the Navy, or someone else to try to defuse the situation. Meanwhile, I suggest we return to Free space and muster our entire fleet, to assist the Navy against the Syndicate if it comes to that. JJ ought to be on <planet>; we can meet up with him there."
What happened to Rand?
Try to determine why communications with Rand in the Zeta Aquilae system were cut off. If you cannot reach Rand, at least look for anything odd in the neighboring systems.
As soon as you land on <origin>, JJ comes running up to your ship. "<first>," he says, "we have serious trouble. A few minutes ago I received a distress call from Rand, then their transmission was cut off. I'm afraid the Syndicate may be expanding into our space."
	"Is our fleet ready to respond?"
	"What should we do?"
	"Our fleet is still scattered throughout this quadrant," he says, "and I'll need Katya to command a part of it. Right now I just need you to travel to Rand, if possible, and find out what's going on. It could just be a communications malfunction, but I seriously doubt it. Meanwhile, Katya and Ijs can help me with organizing the fleet."
Based on your previous maps of this sector, there should be a hyperspace link from here to the Rasalhague system. But your sensors show nothing. Something has severed the link.
The Ascella system used to be linked to Rasalhague and Zeta Aquilae, but no longer. Either the Syndicate has discovered the ability to alter hyperspace links, and is using it to block the Free Worlds from interfering with them, or you have a much stranger problem on your hands...
You land on Tundra and ask around to see if anyone knows why the hyperspace link to Rasalhague is gone. Everyone is talking about it, but no one seems to have a believable theory. "Maybe that odd star out past Rasalhague, the one you can't jump to, went nova," suggests one captain.
	You also talk with several people who mention that the northern lights have been spectacular the last few days, unlike anything they had ever seen before.
You land on Arabia and try to find someone who knows what is going on, but everyone seems just as confused as you are. The spaceport authorities say that their sensors picked up a massive graviton surge when the hyperlinks collapsed, but they are not sure whether the surge caused the collapse, or was a result of it.
	One merchant captain claims that he was in orbit at the time, and he saw a ship unlike anything he'd ever seen before, that appeared and then disappeared in a flash "just like those Quarg ships do." You aren't sure whether or not to believe him.
You receive an urgent message from JJ: "Captain <last>, return to New Tibet at once! We've received word that the Syndicate is somehow severing their hyperspace connections to the rest of human space. We're calling an emergency Council meeting, to convene as soon as you arrive here."
Meet with Parliament
Travel with Alondo to Earth to meet with Parliament. They are now much more willing to meet with you given how real the Syndicate threat seems.
As you are landing, Alondo contacts you and says, "Do you have a bunk free for me?" You do not, so you will need to free one up in order to continue this mission.
By the time you arrive, Alondo and Freya have joined JJ and Katya on New Tibet; the entire Council is present. "Here's the story," says JJ. "A few weeks ago, hyperspace links on the edge of Syndicate space began collapsing. We weren't sure why. Then, more recently, the Syndicate fleet that had been occupying the Sol system retreated to Syndicate space - and the moment the last of their ships left, the hyperspace link disappeared behind them. We think the Syndicate has found a way to alter hyperspace links and is using it to wall themselves in, to escape retribution from the rest of humanity now that their guilt is so conclusively proven."
	"Why don't we just let them go, then?"
	"What is the Republic planning to do in response?"
	Freya says, "Somehow, they managed to annex several of our systems in the process of walling themselves off - our two best suppliers of heavy metals. That suggests that any of our systems on the border with the Syndicate may be taken over, and made completely inaccessible to us, at any time. That's not a risk we can take."
	"And it's not just that," says Katya. "Think of how many workers are on Syndicate worlds right now, having left their families on a different planet in order to go earn money in a Syndicate factory for a few years. Imagine a future where those families are forever divided."
	"They're in a panic," says Katya. "Earth is on the very boundary of the area that was cut off, and that means at any moment, they could choose to cut off humanity's homeworld from the rest of human space. And we don't even know if it is possible to restore the links once they have been cut."
	"According to our embassy," says Alondo, "all communications links with Syndicate space have been cut. The Net relies on hyperspace links to transmit messages, and there are no transmitter relays in the uninhabited systems that now form the only remaining link to Syndicate space."
	JJ says, "The Senate has agreed that we must put our differences with the Republic aside, and meet with Parliament immediately to deal with this crisis. <first>, we're asking you and Alondo to go to Earth, and lend your assistance as you see fit. Any questions?"
	"How do we know the Syndicate is really behind this?"
	"We don't," says JJ, "but this all certainly plays out very well for them; their section of the galaxy has suddenly become a very defensible enclave. And the timing of that fleet leaving, and then the link closing - it's too much to be a coincidence. But we can't learn anything for sure by staying here talking; you must go to Earth."
Reason with the Syndicate
Travel with Alondo to meet with the Syndicate leaders on Foundry, determine their intentions, and convince them not to completely seal themselves off from human space. Hurry, before they cut the last link.
A palpable sense of fear and near-panic hangs over the spaceport on Earth. At any minute, this system that serves as the very hub of human government could disappear into the same unknown abyss that has swallowed up its neighbors.
	Parliament is eager now to meet with you and to receive whatever assistance you may be able to offer. As Alondo stands in front of the chamber asking the members of Parliament for more information, they answer him with respect and deference, far different from how you have been treated here in the past. You learn that although one link remains open to Syndicate space, no one has dared to travel through it. Given the pace at which the other links were cut, they fear that the one remaining link will disappear any day now.
	As the conversation continues, it eventually becomes clear why you have been called here: the Republic wants you to take on the risk none of them is willing to face, and travel through to Syndicate space to reason with their leaders.
	"If this is what it takes to keep human space from being torn into fragments, I will risk my ship to go meet with the Syndicate."
	"This sounds like a job for the Navy, not for me. I can't risk being trapped in hostile Syndicate space forever."
	"Did the Syndicate communicate anything to you before the links were cut, that might help us guess at their intentions?"
	One of the members of Parliament says, "It's all terribly confusing. Our sources in Syndicate space were reporting massive fleet movements just before it happened. We also heard rumors of Syndicate fleets fighting each other, some sort of internal power struggle."
	Another man speaks up and adds, "We had also been aware for some time that the Syndicate had gained access to alien technology, through encounters with a nomadic alien species currently inhabiting the galactic core. They may have found a way to use that technology to alter the links." From the surprised expressions on the faces of many of the other members of Parliament, it's clear that this information is new to them.
	"Very well, we will accept this mission."
	"Sorry, I'm not willing to risk my ship over this."
	Alondo says, quietly but firmly, "Captain <last>, the Senate has asked you to assist the Republic in this matter, and the Council agrees. I know the risk is great, but you swore to serve the Free Worlds, and the Free Worlds are now commanding you to take this mission."
	"Very well," you say, "I accept. But I'm afraid of what will happen when we reach Syndicate space."
	Parliament thanks you for your willingness to serve, and you and Alondo hurry back to your ship. "There's no telling how long the link will remain open," he says. "So, we must hurry to the Syndicate headquarters on <planet> immediately."
Oddly, when you land on <origin> you find that the people here are in as much of a state of confusion and fear as back on Earth. Either no one knows what is going on and why they have been nearly cut off from the rest of human space, or every single person you talk to is united in a conspiracy to feign ignorance. They urge you to continue your journey to meet with the Syndicate executives on Foundry. "Maybe you can talk some sense into them," says one merchant captain. "First the nukes, and now this. The extremist faction within the Syndicate is getting out of hand."
Install a Jump Drive
Travel to the Syndicate world of Hephaestus, where the Syndicate Systems personnel have been instructed to install a jump drive on your ship, so that you can investigate the systems that the Pug has cut off.
As you are coming in for a landing you announce yourselves to the spaceport authorities as diplomatic representatives of the Free Worlds and the Republic. The moment you have landed, a Syndicate employee meets you and escorts you to their headquarters, to the incredibly fancy corner office of Alastair Korban, the CEO of the entire Syndicate Corporation. "I'm very glad you've come," says Alastair. "It seems unlikely that we can defeat this attack unless we work together."
	"Wait," says Alondo, "you're saying this whole thing is not the Syndicate's doing?"
	Alastair seems taken aback. "Of course not. Seal off valuable trade routes? Why would we do that?"
	"We thought you were walling yourselves off to escape prosecution for your acts of terrorism."
	"If it isn't you, then who is it?"
	Alastair says, "That terrorism was the action of a certain extremist faction that we have since purged from our ranks, and we were in the process of hunting down the perpetrators. Your raid on Nimbus interrupted those plans and gave the others a chance to go into hiding, but we will see to it that they, too, are brought to justice. But now, we need to put the past behind us and figure out how to work together against our common foe."
	"I think you're lying. You had years to turn over those extremists, and you did not."
	"Very well. Who is this common foe? You seem to know more than we do."
	"We are deeply, deeply sorry for the actions of these extremists," says Alastair, "and for our own inaction in turning them in. We had hoped that we could deal with them internally, without it becoming public knowledge that we were connected with them. That was a foolish choice for us to make, and we are more than willing to make whatever reparations you demand."
	"You are aware that you started a war, right? Every Navy or Free Worlds militia member who died fighting each other is your responsibility."
	"Okay, we'll deal with that later. For now, tell us everything you know about whoever is attacking you."
	"<first>, enough," says Alondo. "We'll sort out the reparations later. For now, we need to know who is severing the hyperspace links."
	"They are called the Pug," says Alastair, "an irrational alien species that previously inhabited a single star system in between Syndicate and Republic space. They have since expanded their territory to include all the human systems neighboring their own star, and have essentially made those human worlds into their slaves."
	"How do you know this?" asks Alondo.
	Alastair pauses for a minute as if trying to figure out the best way to explain himself, then says, "One of our ships traveled to the occupied systems, using a jump drive that we... acquired... from another alien species." He seems to realize how unlikely that sounds, and backpedals. "For years we've been dealing with occasional raids from a species called the Korath. As best we can tell, they're nomadic scavengers and pirates who currently inhabit the galactic core. Over the years we have disabled several of their ships and stolen their jump drives."
	"Did it not occur to you that attacking the Korath might anger other alien species?"
	"Wait, now there are two different alien species involved? Your story is getting even more convoluted and unbelievable."
	"That is unlikely. The equipment we stole from the Korath is most likely something they stole from someone else."
	"Yes," he says, "it is a very convoluted mess. Which is why we need your help."
	"Assuming you're telling the truth," says Alondo, "what sort of help do you need from us?"
	Alastair says, "We have only seven jump drives, so whatever fleet attacks the Pug can only contain seven ships. Unless the Quarg or someone else will give you more drives, I suppose. So those ships must be stronger than any ship we have here in Syndicate space, because the Pug are very strong. They obliterated our fleet that had been occupying the Sol system, even though that fleet was armed with the majority of our nuclear arsenal."
	"You're saying you'll provide the jump drives, and we'll provide the ships? Sounds fair enough."
	"Wait, you're saying that your fleet that was in orbit around Earth... was armed with nuclear weapons? Are you genocidal?"
	Alastair seems like the kind of person who seldom admits he is wrong, but your question definitely flusters him. "Okay, okay, I admit, we've been making one bad decision after another ever since... well, since that first bad decision. It just got out of control. We thought the Navy was going to raid us and put us all behind bars. We thought we needed a deterrent. It was stupid. I admit it, okay? Now please, let's just move on. We need your capital ships, and you need our jump drives."
	"Hold on," says Alondo, "I have one condition to add. You will give us one of your jump drives immediately. We will install it in our ship and verify that you are telling the truth about the Pug. If you are, we will work together until this threat is dealt with... and once it is dealt with, we will return our attention to bringing every member of the Syndicate who had a hand in those terrorist attacks to justice. That is our best and final offer." You nod in agreement.
	It's clear that Alastair is none too happy about that deal, but he accepts it. "The jump drives are all being kept on Hephaestus," he says. "Our Systems division was trying to discover the secret behind them, with little success. If you travel there, I'll tell them to install one of the drives in your ship."
Investigate the Pug
Travel to the Deneb system to investigate the Pug; if possible, make contact with them and determine what their goals and desires are.
You are directed to land in a hangar some distance away from the spaceport, in a cluster of buildings owned by Syndicated Systems. A team of engineers meets you and quickly and efficiently removes your hyperdrive and replaces it with a strange, alien-looking device that you assume must be a jump drive. "Now, be careful with your fuel gauge," one of them tells you. "This thing guzzles twice as much fuel per jump as an ordinary hyperdrive, and you don't want to become stranded while outside human space."
You are directed to land in a hangar some distance away from the spaceport, in a cluster of buildings owned by Syndicated Systems. A team of engineers meets you and quickly and efficiently removes your scram drive and replaces it with a strange, alien-looking device that you assume must be a jump drive. "Now, be careful with your fuel gauge," one of them tells you. "This thing guzzles twice as much fuel per jump as an ordinary hyperdrive, and you don't want to become stranded while outside human space."
You are directed to land in a hangar some distance away from the spaceport, in a cluster of buildings owned by Syndicated Systems. A team of engineers meets you and asks if they can look over your ship; a few minutes later, one of them says in surprise, "You've already got a jump drive! How did you manage that?" Since you don't need their equipment, they urge you to head directly for Pug space and continue your mission.
Somehow, you've misplaced or lost the jump drive needed to continue the Free Worlds story! If you are unable to find your jump drive, you should revert to the autosave or another earlier snapshot of the game.
When you land at the spaceport on <origin>, you find no evidence of violent struggle; merchant captains are walking around freely, haggling for commodities, and conversing with each other just like in any other spaceport you have visited. However, the spaceport is also being patrolled by small groups of slender, bipedal, pale-skinned aliens who you assume are the Pug. Each one is holding a metal staff: probably some sort of weapon.
	Soon after you land, you spot a man making his way towards your ship, ducking behind other ships and crates every time a group of Pug look in his direction. If he is some sort of fugitive from them, it might be unwise to throw your lot in with him. On the other hand, he could have valuable information for you.
	(Take off before I draw the Pug's attention.)
You open your ship's hatch and allow him to come on board. "You came from outside, didn't you?" he says. "Outside of occupied space, I mean." You nod.
	"What's going on here?" asks Alondo. "Who are these aliens?"
	"Where did they come from originally?" asks Alondo.
	"From a star system that was always a neighbor of ours, but wasn't linked to us or to any other part of human space. We always just assumed it was an uninhabited system, but it turns out they were there all along, biding their time, waiting for a good opportunity to attack us."
	"Well," says Alondo, "they didn't attack us when we jumped into this system. Perhaps we should go to their home system and see what they have to say for themselves."
Bring news to Earth
Now that you have met with the Pug, travel to Earth and explain the situation to Parliament, and send word to the Free Worlds as well, so you can decide how to respond.
	Elsewhere they have mostly ignored you, but here your ship is quickly approached by a small group of the pale-skinned, delicate aliens. The Pug are oddly proportioned, with long arms and legs but short, barrel-shaped torsos and large heads, and although they only have two legs, their gait is vaguely insectoid. "You came from outside," one of them says. "You are not pledged to the Protectorate. Do you wish to make your vow of loyalty and peacefulness at this time?"
	"If you wish us no harm, why did you slaughter the Syndicate fleet?"
	"The fleet that was carrying nuclear weapons, weapons of genocide? The fleet that, when we demanded their surrender, instead attacked us with those weapons? We offered them a place in the Protectorate, but they chose violence instead, and so they perished by violence. That is justice."
	Alondo says, "I still don't understand what makes you think you have the right to interfere in human affairs."
	"By 'spreading peace,' do you mean occupying more systems?" asks Alondo.
	"We mean bringing an end to your war and your divisions," the alien says. "Those of your worlds and your people who have shown themselves unable to live peacefully, we must govern, to teach them peace. Any who attack us, we must destroy, because we are the bringers of peace, and whoever attacks us is not on the side of peace. And so we will send you back to your people now, to tell them that they have nothing to fear, and that they should await our peace and our protection."
	The aliens appear to think the conversation is over; they walk away and leave you puzzling over what they said. "We should report back to Earth," says Alondo. "This situation is far beyond what we can handle alone."
Visit the Deep (optional)
The Pug hinted that they have helped the people of the Deep in the past. Talk to Edrick, the governor of Valhalla, to see what he knows about the Pug. (This mission is optional.)
It is possible that the Pug secretly assisted the humans of the Deep centuries ago by providing them with weapons that helped to turn the tide of the Alpha Wars.
As you are coming in for a landing, you contact Edrick Flint and see if he's available to talk. A few minutes later, you and Alondo are sitting with him in his office in the government center. "I assume you've heard about the alien invasion?" says Alondo. Edrick nods. "The aliens claimed that they had dealt with the Deep in the past. Do you know anything about that?"
	Edrick says, "Can you describe what these aliens look like?"
	"Pale skin, delicate physique, most of them a little under two meters tall," says Alondo. "Long legs, short torsos. And they probably have blue blood."
	Edrick pauses for several seconds, then says, "Yes, we had contact with a species that matches that description, back during the Alpha Wars. Some of the folk traditions about 'elves' that still persist here in the Deep are a result of those encounters."
	"Do you know what they wanted from humanity, back then?"
	"What strengths and weaknesses do their ships have?"
	"If the stories are true, all they wanted was to help us win the war against the Alphas," says Edrick. "They never asked for any payment, except that they borrowed some of our ships, packed them full of alien technology, and fought alongside our ships, masquerading as human ships. They also gave us beam weapon technology; five centuries later, we've only just reached the point where we understand that technology well enough to improve on it."
	"What do you know about their warships?" asks Alondo.
	"I know that they had a technology that allowed their shields to recharge very quickly," says Edrick. "So to destroy one of their ships would require a considerable amount of concentrated firepower. But are you sure we need to fight them? My people have believed for generations that the 'elven folk' were a friendly species, not a hostile one."
	"They seem intent on taking over all of human space and forcing us to submit to their authority. So we must fight them."
	"It's possible that they think they are helping us right now, by interrupting our civil war, but all the same we must fight back."
	Edrick looks disappointed at that. "I understand. I believe that they honestly think they are doing what is best for us, but clearly we cannot tolerate this invasion. Good luck, Captain." He dismisses you.
Visit the Quarg (optional)
Visit the Quarg on <planet> to see if they know anything about the Pug or are willing to help you fight them. (This mission is optional.)
When you land on the station, Alondo says, "From what I understand of Quarg diplomacy, we're just supposed to ask any one of them to direct us to someone who can answer our questions." He walks up to a Quarg who is standing near your docking bay and says, "Excuse me, can you lead us to someone we can talk to?"
	It nods and gestures for you to follow, and leads you to a nook in one of the main hallways, where another Quarg stands behind a desk. You are struck by how little you know about this species: are you speaking to a tour guide, or to a diplomat? Were you led to this individual because this is the governor of the station, or just because this is one who speaks human languages? The Quarg behind the desk says, "Do you have questions for me?"
	"No," it says. Several stripes of skin on its gray face turn a dull red; you have heard that this might indicate sadness, or embarrassment, or possibly anger - one more thing about the Quarg that no one understands well. "Long ago we tried to resist the Pug," it says. "In retribution, they broke one of our rings." It points out the window of the station at the half-finished ringworld. "This ring is half complete, and it has taken a thousand of your years to build. The rings are our most precious creations, nearly impossible to destroy, but the Pug know how to twist and cut the fabric of space itself."
	"So you've encountered the Pug before?" asks Alondo.
	The Quarg is silent for a long moment. "The Pug have meddled with the affairs of many species in this galaxy," it says, "but they are not native to it. They came here through artificial wormholes: a technology that not even the Drak possess. Their actions are unpredictable. They claim to be acting on a special knowledge of future events, but we do not know if that knowledge is genuine or only an excuse to play tricks on other species."
	Alondo is confused. "What do you mean?" he asks.
	"Wait," says Alondo, "you're saying they would intentionally attack us with a weaker force instead of using all their strength and guaranteeing victory?"
	"That makes no sense," says Alondo. "They would die for the sake of a game?"
	"Their identity is communal, rather than individual?" says Alondo.
	"Thank you for your time."
	"Is there any chance you could give us some jump drives, so we can bring a bigger fleet against the Pug?"
	"No, I apologize," it says. "We see that you have somehow gained access to a jump drive, and we will not take it away from you, but we also cannot give your species more of them."
Gather the fleet
Travel to <destination> and requisition two Free Worlds Dreadnoughts to join in the battle against the Pug. (But if you want to visit the Quarg or the Deep, do that first.)
Your ship caused quite a stir when it entered the Sol system via jump drive. Fortunately Parliament allowed you to land in one of their private hangars, but even so a few press drones managed to follow your ship into the hangar and have cameras pointed at you from the moment you and Alondo disembark.
	You report to Parliament that the hyperspace links are being cut not by the Syndicate, but by an alien species, and that the Syndicate has offered to supply jump drives for an attack fleet if the Republic and the Free Worlds will supply the ships. You also report that the aliens' intention is to spread out to occupy more of human space and to demand a fraction of the resource production of all human planets, supposedly in the name of bringing "peace."
	One of the senators asks, "Do you think we have any chance of defeating the aliens?"
	"It's possible. They all live in a single star system, so we outnumber them."
	"It's unlikely. If we have any options other than fighting them, we should explore those options."
	"I think we have no choice," says one of the older members. "Even if it is a losing battle, we can't let the human race be enslaved without a fight."
	They have many other questions after that; you answer them as best you can, and leave them with full copies of your sensor logs of the alien ships and planets. Parliament agrees that the next step is for you to convince the Free Worlds to contribute two Dreadnoughts to the attack fleet. "Also," one of the members of Parliament says, "maybe you could talk to those aliens who live down in your part of space, see if they can help us out in any way. It sure would be handy if the Pug turn out to be an enemy of theirs."
	During the hearing, you refrained from mentioning that the Pug claimed to have assisted the Deep in the past, but once you are back in your ship Alondo says, "Maybe we should also visit Valhalla and see if Governor Flint has any information for us."
Travel to <planet> with two Free Worlds Dreadnoughts that will be joining the fight against the Pug.
Freya meets you soon after you land. "I've heard the news," she says. "I talked to the Senate, and they think that I should travel with you during your assault on the Pug, in case I can help figure out their technology, maybe even how to restore the hyperspace links. And they say they need Alondo back here to do diplomatic visits and help keep people from panicking."
	"I guess that makes sense," says Alondo.
	"Also," says Freya, "the Senate approved a raise for you, <first>. Your new salary will be seventeen thousand credits a day. I hope that means you'll be able to go into battle against the Pug with the strongest ship possible, because I suspect we'll need all the firepower we can get."
	Alondo wishes you the best of luck and leaves to catch a transport to Bourne, while Freya takes you to the spaceport and introduces you to the captains of the two Dreadnoughts that have volunteered to fight the Pug. She also asks you all sorts of technical questions: what sort of propulsion and energy sources the Pug seem to use, what their weapon capabilities are, and whether you saw any sign of the technology that was used to destroy the hyperspace links. You have a hard time answering her, but are glad that she will be with you this time to see the aliens firsthand.
You have reached <planet>, but the dreadnoughts are lagging behind you because they are using ordinary hyperdrives. Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
You land at the Republic Navy Yard on Geminus escorting the two Dreadnoughts that are the Free Worlds contribution to the war against the Pug. You are met by the shipyard supervisor and a team of engineers who are preparing the Navy ships to join you. "So, these are your Dreadnoughts," one of them says. "I'm glad to finally have the chance to see one up close. I don't suppose one of the captains would be willing to give me a tour."
	"Um, we're right in the middle of resisting an alien invasion, here."
	"Sorry, we aren't authorized to share military secrets with you."
	"Sure, I'm sure we could arrange something."
	Freya laughs. "Give him a break, <first>. He's just thinking like an engineer, rather than a tactician. I mean, I'd certainly jump at the chance to tour a Cruiser even at a time like this."
	The supervisor seems irked that his engineers are more interested in exploring nifty new ship technology than in the task at hand, but he grudgingly offers to give you a tour of the Navy Yard in exchange for letting his engineers take a closer look at the Dreadnoughts. Freya whispers to you, "Just think of this as another step toward peace and reconciliation."
	The new shipyard is some distance away from the old one, which is still in ruins, a radioactive crater a few kilometers away from the spaceport. "The attack happened at night," says the supervisor. "Three hundred and forty-seven people were killed. If the attack had been during working hours, that number would have been in the thousands. We're recovering some metal from the old shipyard, but other than that it's a total loss. The radiation is slowly dying down, though."
	There is deep anger in his voice as he speaks. You are glad that the Free Worlds have been proved innocent of involvement in the attack, but you suspect that on the worlds that were bombed, most people will not accept peace with the Syndicate on any terms except the full surrender of all the Syndicate personnel who were responsible.
	When they're done giving you the tour, you return to the spaceport. The supervisor and the team of engineers wish you the best of luck, and depart.
Escort to Hephaestus
Escort the combined Free Worlds and Navy fleet to <destination>, where the Syndicate will fit all the ships with jump drives.
You have reached <planet>, but part of your fleet is not here yet. Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Attempt to drive the Pug out of the <system> system, then land on <planet>.
The Syndicate directs you to land your ships in the private hangars for Syndicated Systems. Once you have landed, they quickly work to install jump drives in the Navy and Free Worlds ships. As they work, you hear one of the workers saying to another, "Golly, I'd forgotten how big those Navy ships are. Makes a Protector look puny by comparison, doesn't it?"
	Once the work is done, you meet with a senior Syndicate executive named Marco Bugati. "I really hope this works," he says, "because these are the only jump drives we've been able to acquire. If your fleet is destroyed, we will have lost access to the occupied territory entirely."
	Once the work is done, you meet with a senior Syndicate executive named Marco Bugati. "I really hope this works," he says, "because these are the only jump drives we've been able to acquire, though you seem to have picked one up yourself; I'd like to have a chat with you and find out how, if we all survive this. I can tell you, that extra ship we've got thanks to the spare jump drive may be pivotal. But if your fleet is destroyed, we will have lost access to the occupied territory entirely."
	You gather your fleet and prepare for an assault on Delta Capricorni, which is the occupied star system closest to Syndicate space.
[Take good care of this fleet: if ships are disabled, board them to "repair" them once the battle is over. And, when jumping into battle, remember that you can hold down the jump key to get all your ships ready to jump simultaneously, so no single ship enters the system first and bears the brunt of the enemy fire.]
You've landed on <planet>, but there are either still Pug ships circling overhead, or you've left Freya behind. You should take off and help finish off the Pug or wait for your escort carrying Freya to arrive.
Defend Maker
Keep the Pug from regaining control of Maker for long enough for Freya to figure out whether it is possible to restore the hyperspace link back to the Markab system.
Along with the remaining ships from the combined attack fleet, you land at the main spaceport on <origin>. The other ships are carrying trained soldiers and equipment for planetary defense: ground-based laser turrets, surface to air missiles, and tracking radar for incoming ships. The soldiers have come armed and ready to fight the Pug on the ground if necessary, but it turns out that all the Pug who were here took off in one of the ships that were trying to repulse your attack.
You have liberated this planet, but with your entire fleet destroyed your victory may be short-lived. Still, you have no option but to continue on and try your best. Fortunately, it turns out that none of the Pug are left on the ground here on Maker; they all left the planet to join in the fleet that you just destroyed. So at least you don't have a land war to worry about.
	Freya has some good news: she is picking up very faint, intermittent signals from the hyperspace communications relay back in the Markab system. "That means the link may not be closed completely," she says, "or at least, there's some residue remaining."
	Freya directs you to fly over the planet and survey the buildings and equipment that the Pug left behind, and after searching for a while you discover an alien building that vaguely resembles a radio transmitter. You land nearby, and as you approach the building on foot, you feel as if the ground beneath you is heaving and rolling like the deck of a ship on choppy seas. "Graviton distortions," she says. "This may be it, the equipment they used to disrupt the hyperspace links. It will take me a while to figure out how it works, though."
	You agree that she will stay here to try to figure out the alien technology, while you do your best to defend the planet and to keep the Pug from retaking it.
