You receive a message from Freya: "Captain, I think I've figured out the transmitter, and there is indeed a chance that we can reopen the hyperspace links. Meet me back down on the planet as soon as possible - I'll need you to take some equipment back to Hephaestus and set it up there."
Reflector to Hephaestus
Freya found a device that she believes is a "graviton reflector," which can somehow be set up in the <system> system to re-establish the hyperspace link between there and Delta Capricorni. Bring the transmitter to the Syndicate officials on <planet>.
Freya contacts you and says, "Captain, you're going to need ten tons of cargo space." You do not have that much available, so you should return here when you do.
Freya meets you soon after you land. She has brought with her a large piece of alien machinery, mounted on a flat-bed truck for easy transportation. "I shut down the transmitter," she says, "and sure enough, the signal from Markab started to gradually become stronger. I think it was somehow jamming or suppressing the hyperspace link, rather than completely severing it. So then I found that the transmitter has a different setting, where instead of sending random graviton noise, it sends a steady, harmonic pulse. And that accelerated the process of reopening the link."
	"Great! How soon until the link is open again?"
	"Are you sure we should be playing with alien technology we don't understand?"
	"Do we really have any better options?" she asks. "Without reinforcements, how many more Pug attacks do you really think you can survive? Besides, there's a certain logic and balance to the rules of physics, so even when dealing with something we can't understand, sometimes intuition can guide us." She pauses for a second, and says, "And sometimes intuition steers us terribly wrong, but let's not think about that right now."
	"So, you succeeded in opening the link?" you say.
	"Well, that's the bad news," she says. "At this rate, it will take several years to reopen the connection. And I doubt this method would work at all if there weren't still the residual link in place. But that's where this equipment comes in."
	She points to the alien machine. "This machine is like the transmitter, but much simpler. The transmitter somehow redirects a planet's gravity spaceward; what this machine does is reflect a graviton beam back where it comes from. If we can mount the reflector on Hephaestus, and align them both very precisely, we can set up a standing wave between the two that will regenerate the hyperspace link much more quickly. Or for all I know it might create an artificial singularity that destroys us all. I'm mostly flying blind here."
	"Well, I guess we should give it a try."
	"Sounds risky. Are there any other options we could try?"
	"No," she says, "no, there are not. Sorry."
	You load the reflector onto your ship, and get ready to travel to Hephaestus. You suspect that the Pug are going to try to stop you, once they realize what is happening...
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the graviton reflector hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Return to <system>
Return to <destination>, accompanied by your new reinforcement fleet supplied by the Syndicate, and talk with Freya to decide on what your next steps should be now that you have the ability to restore the links to human space.
Freya sent detailed instructions with the reflector for where it should be set up and how it should be adjusted to interface with the transmitter back in Pug space. You hand it over to a team of Syndicate engineers, who seem quite capable and confident that they can make it work; you suspect that these are the same engineers who have been playing with equipment stolen from the Korath, so they are no strangers to alien technology.
	You also meet with Marco Bugati, the Syndicate executive who oversaw the installation of your jump drives, and tell him that you may soon be able to reopen one of the connections to Republic space, as well. You ask if he can send a courier ship to Earth to inform them of the new situation, to have them begin massing a fleet there. He agrees. He also tells you that a few of the Syndicate ships that met you in orbit have been designated as additions to your attack fleet, so they will be traveling back to Maker with you if the reflector succeeds in reopening the link.
	A few hours later, the engineers tell you that they think the link is beginning to reopen. Bugati says, "You should take off and return as soon as possible, in case Maker has been attacked in your absence."
If you can drive the Pug away from <destination>, you will be able to re-establish the hyperspace link between Altair and the Sol system, and immediately bring in Navy ships as reinforcements.
Freya contacts you and says, "<first>, we're going to need space for me, plus ten tons of cargo, on your ship. Think you can do that?" You tell her you will contact her here on <origin> as soon as you have made the space available.
Freya is overjoyed that she has found a way to reverse the Pug technology and restore a hyperspace connection to human space. "Now we actually have a chance," she says. "Before, with just you and six other ships, victory seemed unlikely."
Freya is overjoyed that she has found a way to reverse the Pug technology and restore a hyperspace connection to human space. "Now we actually have a chance," she says. "Before, with just you and seven other ships, victory seemed unlikely."
	"What should we do next?"
	"Are you sure that generating these graviton waves is safe?"
	"I'm sure of nothing," she says, "but it seemed to work, and without any catastrophic side effects so far, so that's something."
	Freya leads you to a warehouse in the spaceport where another one of the "graviton reflectors" is stored. "This should work the same as the one you brought to Hephaestus," she says. "If there's a transmitter on Shiver, we can bring the reflector to Sol and open a link back to the very heart of human space. And at that point, we may even have the Pug outgunned. But first, we need to drive them away from that star system for long enough for me to work the transmitter."
Reflector to <planet>
Bring this "graviton reflector" to <planet> and set it up there, in order to restore the hyperspace link between the Sol and Altair systems.
Sure enough, Freya finds a graviton wave transmitter on <origin>, set up to broadcast incoherent graviton noise in the direction of the Sol system. "This is it," she says. "If you can reach <planet> with the reflector before we are overrun by the Pug here, we can reopen the hyperspace link and the entire Navy will be at our backs. Hopefully the Syndicate got a message through and they'll have a fleet waiting for you when you arrive."
	"You really think you can hold off the Pug if I make a run for <planet>?"
	"I'm worried that you won't survive if I leave this system undefended."
	"Don't worry about us here," she says. "We have a fair number of ships here on the ground, if it comes to that. But the most important thing is that you rendezvous with the Navy reinforcements in the <system> system, and if you can draw the Pug fleet to pursue you, all the better. Good luck, <first>."
Defend Altair
Freya sent you a message that the <system> system is under attack. Return there, accompanied by your new Navy reinforcements, and drive off the Pug.
You help some Navy engineers on Earth to set up the graviton reflector according to Freya's instructions. As before, soon after the reflector is operational the ground seems to tilt and roll as Freya's beam hones in on the reflector and sets up a harmonic oscillation between the two. "The link is reopening!" says one of the engineers. "We're beginning to receive hyperspace communications from Altair again, and from the Syndicate too."
	A second later your own communicator beeps. It's Freya. "Get back here quickly," she says. "Bring whatever reinforcements you can. A massive Pug fleet just appeared in orbit."
Now that the Navy has joined you, it is time to take the battle directly to the Pug home system. Once their fleet is eliminated, land on their home world of <planet> to attempt to negotiate for peace.
You need a bunk free for Freya to continue this mission.
The tiny spaceport on Shiver is packed with people as more and more Navy ships come in for a landing. The Navy admirals have decided that there is no sense in delaying: you will be launching an attack on the Pug homeworld in the morning. Despite your success so far in battling the Pug, you know that if their entire fleet opposes you, even the Navy may not be strong enough to defeat them. This may be the last time you see many of these officers and crew members alive.
	You find Freya sitting in a secluded nook on the upper floor of the spaceport building, watching the drifting snow out the window. "Ready for the last battle, Captain?" she asks.
Deal with the Syndicate
Now that the Pug appear to have been driven off, it's time to get some answers from the Syndicate. Travel with Admiral Danforth back to <destination> for another meeting with the CEO of the Syndicate.
When you and Freya get back to the spaceport, Danforth pulls you aside. "We should talk," he says. He leads you to a private room aboard his ship, and says, "It seems that we've reached the end of whatever game these aliens were playing with us. And that means we need to get back to what we were doing before they interrupted us: bringing the Syndicate to justice."
	"Sounds good. What's your plan?"
	"We just fought a major battle, and the Syndicate helped us. Do we really want to be at war with them again?"
	Danforth sighs. "No, I don't want more war. But I also don't think we can go back to trusting the Syndicate. Especially now that we know they've got nuclear weapons."
	"What's your plan, then?" asks Freya.
	"From what I've heard of your conversation with their CEO, Korban," says Danforth, "I think the Syndicate leadership might be willing to surrender these extremists to us. Especially if it helps the leaders to clear their own names. I'm thinking we should stop by the Syndicate headquarters while the rest of their fleet is still occupied here. If just my ship and yours leave, it won't attract too much attention."
Cloaking Device
Alastair Korban has agreed to give you a cloaking device that will allow you to evade missile attacks. Travel to Hephaestus, where they will install the device on your ship.
The presence of a Navy Cruiser in orbit seldom goes unnoticed, especially a Cruiser captained by someone as famous as William Danforth. As soon as you land, a Syndicate employee meets you and escorts you, Freya, and Danforth to the office of Alastair Korban, the CEO. He does not seem very happy to see you. "I only just got word that the aliens were defeated a few days ago," he says. "I'm surprised you're back here already."
	Danforth says, "I've got a whole Navy fleet just a few jumps away from here who are itching to destroy something. So here's the deal. You name me some targets: the men who were responsible for the terrorist attack. Then I will do you a favor and take them off your hands. Fair enough?"
	Korban sighs, and then opens his desk and pulls out a sheet of paper. "This is my resignation letter," he says. "I've been working on it since my first meeting with Captain <last>. I've failed in my leadership of this company. But you have no idea how deep that failure goes."
	"Years ago," he says, "some leaders of our financial division were approached by some... consultants. Some very intelligent and knowledgeable individuals. These consultants had built a powerful quantum computer, running a model of the galactic economy. They called it the 'Oracle.' As you may know, business is all about taking risks, for uncertain payoffs. But the Oracle gave us a way to predict the future, for everything from supply chain management to stock trading to the commodities market."
	"These consultants," says Freya, "were they human?"
	Alastair looks very uncomfortable. "Yes... and no," he says.
	Danforth swears. "Alphas. You were dealing with the Alphas. What did you give them in return?"
	"The Korath raids had just begun," says Alastair, "so we suddenly had access to alien technology. They were interested in all of it, but particularly the jump drives. So they could spread beyond human space."
	"Was the information from the Oracle accurate?"
	"Why would you ever agree to work with the Alphas?"
	"They have power. And knowledge. To some of us, that was enough," he says.
	"Was that knowledge accurate?" asks Freya.
	"Very accurate," he says. "Our business flourished like never before. But then a month came when instead, the Oracle's predictions were bleak. A massive recession was coming, an end to the golden days of the Republic. We tried altering the model in every way we could: changing our production, our wages. We even asked the Oracle if dissolving the Syndicate would avert the recession. But its predictions remained the same. Then we learned from our contacts in Parliament about the Southern Defense Pact, and the fear that they were about to declare independence. So we asked the Oracle what would happen if war broke out."
	"You started a war... to save the economy?" says Danforth. He sounds disgusted. "Do you know how many lives have been lost because of your sick greed?"
	Alastair snaps at Danforth. "Do you think we made this decision lightly? Do you know how many lives would have been lost had such a recession actually occurred? The last time the economy fell as hard as the Oracle predicted, humanity entered a dark age where millions died of starvation and billions more suffered from the resulting chaos!
	"But... the Alphas were only too glad to help. Especially with the nuclear research. Which, incidentally, is why I'm telling you all this, because if your fleet tries to take out the Alphas, they'll strike back with nukes."
	"Do you have an alternative to attacking them?"
	"Is there any way we could disable the nukes?"
	"We gave the Alphas most of the alien technology we recovered," he says, "but one device, we managed to keep secret from them. We found it in a Korath cargo hold, and it took us a long time to even figure out how to activate it. But when we did, we discovered that it's a cloaking device. It obscures a ship not just from the visible spectrum, but from radar as well, and every other sensor we've tested except for gravitational ones. I'm certain it would hide you from the tracking systems on the nukes."
	Freya says, "But it would only hide one ship. That doesn't sound like it would do much good."
	Alastair says, "They have a limited number of nukes. Our plan was to send a ship in cloaked, have it uncloak long enough to draw their fire, and then cloak to avoid the missiles. Basically, see how many missiles we can get them to spend before the main attack fleet arrives."
	Danforth says, "That's not a bad idea. Captain <last>, would you be willing to serve as the decoy?"
	"It sounds risky, but I'll do it."
	"Do I get to keep the cloaking device when I'm done?"
	"I don't see why not," says Danforth, fixing Alastair with a piercing gaze. "It's certainly better than leaving it in Syndicate hands."
	Alastair tells you that the device is being kept on Hephaestus, and the engineers there can install it in your ship. Meanwhile, Danforth will call in the rest of his Oathkeeper fleet. "And when we're through with this, I'll be seeing to it that this Oracle is destroyed so that this can never happen again," says Danforth. Alastair gives a meek nod in agreement. "Now, where are the Alphas."
	"The Alphas are holed up on Buccaneer Bay," says Alastair, "an old pirate world. Good luck in defeating them."
Final Battle
A fleet of nuclear-armed Syndicate extremists controlled by the Alphas is occupying the <system> system. Travel there and use the cloaking device to draw their fire; the Oathkeeper fleet will be right behind you.
You land in the same private hangar that you visited previously to have the jump drive installed, and you think these engineers are the same crew that met you back then. "This thing is almost as bizarre as the jump drive itself," one of them says. "We have no clue how it works, and we weren't done studying it when Korban ordered us to give it to you, so please don't get yourself blown up. Okay?"
	Meanwhile, Danforth is on his way back to Deneb to rally the Oathkeepers. You should head directly for the <system> system, so that you arrive there far enough in advance of the Oathkeeper fleet.
Report to Parliament
Return to Earth to report to Parliament on the resolution of the conflicts with the Pug and with the Syndicate extremists.
Soon after you land, more Navy ships begin pouring into the system, including Admiral Danforth's own Cruiser. Navy soldiers and ships are scouring the whole surface of the planet; there is very little chance that any of the Alphas who remain here will be able to escape their detection. Admiral Danforth meets with you and Freya and thanks you for providing the decoy that kept his own ships from bearing the brunt of the Alphas' nuclear arsenal.
	"Do you need us to do anything more here?" asks Freya.
	"No," he says, "and I hear that Parliament wants to speak with you, Captain <last>. Something about an official commendation for your part in the battle against the Pug, I think. Meanwhile, this may not be the end of our trouble with the Syndicate, but at least it's a good start. It's been an honor to fight alongside you."
	"You too, sir."
	"You mean this is the end? No more battles to fight?"
	"What, does peace and reconciliation sound boring to you?" he says. "Don't worry about that. With that jump drive installed in your ship, the whole galaxy is open to you. Who knows what you might discover beyond the boundaries of human space?"
	You return to your ship, and prepare for the journey back to Earth, hopeful that at last Parliament will be willing to negotiate a permanent peace with the Free Worlds.
Tensions between the Free Worlds and the Republic mounted when additional systems decided to leave the Republic and join the Free Worlds, culminating in a series of military confrontations that ended when the Free Worlds were able to present credible evidence denying any involvement in the terrorist attacks. After the Free Worlds joined the effort to drive out the Pug invaders, the Republic officially recognized the Free Worlds and diplomatic relations were established.
It was exposed that the bombings of Gemini and Martini that helped cause the war between the Republic and Free Worlds were the doing of the Syndicate, designed by top executives with the help of a group of Alphas. Despite the claims that all the extremists responsible have been purged and handed over to the Navy, the reputation of the Syndicate will be damaged for years to come.
On Earth, you return to something of a hero's welcome, far different from the first time you were here on a diplomatic mission. A crowd of locals gathers in the spaceport to watch your ship land. With the Free Worlds having been instrumental in defeating the aliens, and absolved of any guilt in the terrorist attacks, it seems that most people here are ready to see you as a hero rather than a criminal.
	Your meeting with Parliament is long and grueling, as they press you and Freya for every detail you can give them about the enigmatic Pug and their apparent motivation in invading human space. The questions about the Syndicate are equally hard to answer. But at the end of the session, one of the members of Parliament informs you that they have authorized an official commendation for you, along with a reward of five million credits "to cover any of your expenses from fighting the aliens."
	As you walk out, you find Alondo, JJ, and Katya sitting in the courtyard of Parliament. When they spot you walking towards them, JJ waves and says, "<first> and Freya! Am I glad to see the two of you still in one piece! What brings you to Earth?"
	"I received a commendation from Parliament."
	"Parliament wanted to interrogate us on what happened with the Pug and the Syndicate."
	"We just needed to deal with some boring administrative stuff."
	"And I'm sure that it was very well deserved," says Katya with a smirk.
	"I hope that they were nicer questioning you than they were to me," Katya says with a grin.
	"Well," Katya says while smirking, "You'll be glad to know that you aren't alone in grappling with the bureaucracy."
	"What have you three been doing?" Freya asks.
	Alondo says, "We've been talking to Parliament, and they're finally beginning to let off of us. They have signed a treaty with the Free Worlds, agreeing that the Navy will begin pulling out of any occupied systems, and that the Free Worlds will be allowed autonomy in the region they currently control as long as they do not seek to expand their territory further. As of now, our war against the Republic is officially over."
	Alondo says, "We've been talking to Parliament, and they're finally beginning to let off of us. They have signed a treaty with the Free Worlds, agreeing that the Free Worlds will be allowed autonomy in the region they currently control as long as they do not seek to expand their territory further. As of now, our war against the Republic is officially over."
	"What about you two?" says JJ. "How did fighting the Pug go?"
	You and Freya explain to the rest of the Council how the Pug were defeated, as well as the truth behind the Syndicate starting the war. When you finish, Katya says, "Vanishing aliens, prophetic supercomputers starting wars, Alphas pulling strings in the Syndicate's ranks; if I hadn't seen events just as unbelievable over the last few months, I would write what you're saying off as a bad conspiracy theory."
	"Well, it looks like the Council is all together again," says JJ, "for the last time, as it so happens. Now that the war has ended, and the Pug have been defeated, the Senate has voted to dissolve the Council, leaving us free to return to civilian life. However, they've also agreed to pay you, <first>, a reduced salary in gratitude of your service. So, what do you think you will do next?"
	"Well, we all wish you the best of luck," says Freya. "We would never have gotten this far without you. Be sure to stay in touch." You hug each of them goodbye, and return to your ship. What you do next is up to you...
Drought relief to <planet>
The farming world of <destination> is currently experiencing a drought. Deliver <cargo> to the planet by <date> for <payment>.
Remembrance Day celebration
Bring <fare> to <destination> by <date> for the Remembrance Day celebration on February 19th. Payment is <payment>.
You wish your <passengers> the best of luck on <planet>. The children run off your ship in green face paint, and the parents pay you <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date> in preparation for the Remembrance Day celebration on February 19th. Payment is <payment>.
Spaceport workers already festively dressed for Remembrance Day remove the cargo of <commodity> from your ship and hand you your payment of <payment>.
Return from Remembrance Day
Bring <fare> home to <destination> after the Remembrance Day celebration. Payment is <payment>.
Food convoy to <planet>
The captain of the <npc>, leading a small convoy of ships carrying food, will pay you <payment> to escort them to <destination> by <date>.
The captain of the <npc> thanks you for escorting their ships safely, and pays you <payment>.
The captain of the <npc>, leading a convoy of ships carrying food, will pay you <payment> to escort them to <destination> by <date>.
The captain of the <npc>, leading a large convoy of ships carrying food, will pay you <payment> to escort them to <destination> by <date>.
The Lionheart Aerie is a light carrier, designed to be just big enough for two fighter bays plus a decent armament of its own. Variations on this same ship design have been in use in the Deep for almost half a millennium, but this model comes with the very latest in generator and weapon technology.
The Argosy from Southbound Shipyards is very popular with merchants not because of its capacity, which is actually slightly smaller than the Syndicate Freighter, but because it can hold its own in combat even against a small pirate fleet.
	The Argosy is also a very easy ship to upgrade with faster engines or more powerful weapons as needed, so many privately owned Argosies have very different capabilities than the stock model.
The Arrow is a light transport, designed for bringing a small number of very rich passengers - Syndicate CEOs, for example - from one planet to another with speed and style. It makes up for its light armament by being able to outrun nearly every other ship in the sky.
The Auxiliary is the Republic Navy's logistical backbone. The size and durability of a capital ship but more cargo and passenger space than any other Navy ship, the Auxiliary is used whenever the Navy needs large amounts of troops or cargo transported with a guarantee that they'll reach the destination.
The Auxiliary was built with modularity in mind, allowing the ship to be fitted for more cargo or bunk space depending on the mission. This modularity makes the ship rather expensive to build, however, and therefore a rare sight to see.
The Lionheart Bactrian is the last of the great city-ships, a design hearkening back to the early days of space colonization when a long-distance vessel needed to be a self-contained world, able to survive for weeks at a time without encountering an inhabited planet. It is not only a freighter, but a carrier, and a capable warship either at short range or at a distance.
	Naturally, this versatility also makes it extremely expensive, and the Bactrian is normally only for sale to citizens who have been vetted by the local government of the Deep.
Though the Syndicate doesn't build fighter carriers, it is testing the waters with the Barb, a cheap and flexible carrier-launched craft featuring newly-developed miniaturized ion engines. The design philosophy of the Barb seems to have been "uglier than the Protector," and as you look at the cockpit nestled between the massive gun port and turret mount, you wonder where the power systems are supposed to go. Though an awkward-looking ship, it seems flexible enough to become a dangerous addition to any fleet with carriers.
The Barb's commercial success spurred demand for a variant equipped with a Proton Gun. Syndicated Systems had to remove the turret mounting hardware to fit the powerful cannon, but the result is a level of short-range firepower that is unheard-of for a craft its size.
The Southbound Shipyards Bastion is designed as a heavy defense platform to accompany freighter convoys, in addition to having enough cargo capacity to serve as a freighter in its own right. Because of its heavy armament, it is classified as a warship rather than a freighter.
The Behemoth is a recent ship design from Betelgeuse Shipyards, designed as an alternative to the Syndicate Bulk Freighter. Although its cargo capacity is somewhat lower, it is also more maneuverable, and packs a heavier armament by default.
Once one of the most popular interceptor-class ships, the Berserker's popularity is now waning in favor of more modern and versatile ships like the Hawk. Although limited numbers are still produced by Betelgeuse Shipyards, most Berserkers that are in service today are more than half a century old.
The Tarazed Blackbird is a high-class passenger transport, designed to move large numbers of people across the galaxy with speed and safety. Although not equipped with much weaponry, a Blackbird is well protected and fast enough to evade pirate attacks, and its cargo capacity is high enough to allow the captain to take courier missions on the side.
The Megaparsec Bounder is a scout ship and courier, designed not for battle but for carrying passengers and small amounts of cargo across large distances quickly.
After introducing the "Type F" cargo pod for the Hauler, it became apparent to merchant captains that the new carriers could offer more flexibility within their fleet, if there were a cargo box they could attach to the fighter arms. Enter the "F6-C: Boxwing," the Fighter that doesn't fight, but carries cargo instead. Cargo preservation equipment gives the Boxwing much more mass and very poor heat dissipation characteristics compared to other fighters. That it cannot carry any weapons is only part of the reason jocks call it "Flying Coffin" amongst themselves; besides the ship resembling one and being very sluggish, the pilot "seat" doubles as a bunk, and is cramped beyond the comfort level of most. The interactive panoramic window H.U.D. is the only thing that keeps claustrophobic episodes from becoming a major problem.
The Bulk Freighter is the ultimate cargo ship, able to carry as much cargo as four ordinary Syndicate Freighters. Its on-board gearing allows it to service even the most primitive colonies, though dock workers in busier spaceports often joke that it would be simpler to carry smaller freighters within its gigantic holds.
	It is also an incredibly slow and difficult to maneuver ship, especially when loaded down with cargo. Some freight caravans use ordinary freighters instead of Bulk Freighters just to avoid the hassle of constantly having to wait for the Bulk Freighter to properly align itself for hyperspace travel.
The Bulwark is basically what you get by welding a bunch of scrap metal on to a Bastion. It is a tough, slow brawler that is most often used by warlords to protect their properties, whether it'd be their ships or hideouts from raids by either the authorities or their rivals. Due to their lack of speed and cargo space these ships rarely participate in raiding merchant convoys outside their home system.
The Carrier is more than just a warship: it is practically a mobile space station, with docking bays for an entire squadron of drones and fighters and enough crew to fill a small village. Although designed primarily for engaging enemies from a distance, a Carrier can also do significant damage in close combat.
The Class C "Freighter" is a Q-ship, a stealth warship designed by the Syndicate for baiting pirates with the offer of what appears to be a helpless, ordinary bulk freighter.
	Inside, a layer of Interference Plating hides its military-grade equipment and a dozen combat drones secreted away in its converted cargo holds, while its faux gearing conceals extra shield emitters.
The Clipper is the smaller sister ship to the popular Southbound Shipyards Argosy. Although not able to carry as much cargo, Clippers are versatile ships that can be used as passenger transports, couriers, or even warships in a pinch, and they come with enough free space to be customized based on an individual captain's needs.
Combat drones are pilotless attack ships used primarily by the Republic Navy. Although very weak and easy to destroy, they can be very effective in large numbers. Because drones do not need a cockpit, they can be filled entirely with equipment and solid metal, which makes their hulls stronger than other small ships.
The Container Transport is a newer, more popular configuration of the Bulk Freighter that replaces the outboard loose cargo holds with intermodal containers for more efficient turnaround in larger, better-equipped ports.
	As with its geared cousin, however, it remains a slow and difficult to maneuver ship, especially when loaded down with cargo. Some freight caravans use ordinary freighters instead of Container Transports just to avoid the hassle of constantly having to wait for the Container Transport to properly align itself for hyperspace travel.
Incorporating new, experimental lightweight materials, the Lionheart Corvette combines the speed and agility of a fighter with the armament of a heavy warship. Its weak hull is more than compensated for by its advanced shielding matrix.
The Republic Cruiser is a relatively recent design, a much larger version of the Frigate designed to be able to take on an entire pirate fleet if necessary. In addition to a wide variety of weaponry, Cruisers have space to carry four attack drones: fast, pilotless fighters that can be controlled remotely.
Pirates call this heavily modified Clipper the "Cutthroat." With an extra pair of engine pods bolted on for the sole purpose of maximizing speed, it can catch or outrun all but the most fine-tuned ships in the sky.
The Dagger is a fighter designed by Lionheart Industries, intended to be carried by their Aerie warship, although other ships have been known to carry them, as well. As with many Lionheart ships, its chassis is largely composed of lightweight composite materials, making it considerably faster than other fighters.
The Dreadnought is a new warship that was designed by Southbound Shipyards in order to provide a large capital ship for the Free Worlds fleets, something capable of standing up to a Navy Cruiser or even a Carrier.
Dropships were designed with the Navy's Auxiliary in mind. Landed Auxiliaries often act as forward operating bases, so troops needing transport to another area often rely on their Dropships. This cramped and uncomfortable vessel is able to move a squad of Republic soldiers at great speed for its size.
The Tarazed Falcon is one of the most powerful warships that civilians can buy, a sleeker and more maneuverable alternative to the venerable and somewhat outdated Leviathan.
When the Free Worlds started requesting a Carrier solution from its local shipyards, Tarazed Shipyards quickly saw that a few modifications could make their entry level interceptor into a top tier fighter. Over 85% of the parts that make up the Finch are shared with the Sparrow assembly line, so it's no surprise that even trimmed down to (barely) fit into a fighter bay, the blindingly fast Finch bears strong resemblance to its hyperspace-faring cousin.
The Betelgeuse Shipyards Firebird is a warship with a long and storied past; Firebirds fought on both sides of the Alpha Wars over half a millennium ago, and although the equipment and systems have been upgraded continuously since then, the basic design remains almost the same. The Firebird is also a very rugged ship and easy to repair; supposedly a few of the Firebirds that fought in those wars are still in service today.
With space for neither cargo nor passengers nor heavy weaponry, the Flivver's only selling point is speed. Flivvers are sold mostly to wealthy individuals who want to be able to travel the stars without needing to share a bunk room on a merchant transport with common people.
The Freighter is designed by the Syndicate to be an efficient means of carrying cargo from system to system, but is so slow and difficult to land that most pilots hate flying them.
	Freighters are an obvious target for pirates, but turn much too slowly to be able to bring any forward-facing guns to bear on an approaching enemy. As a result, the latest model of freighter is equipped only with turrets, including an anti-missile turret to prevent attackers from simply bombarding them into submission from a safe distance.
For centuries, the Frigate was the largest warship produced by the Republic Navy Yard, but now they seem quite small compared to a Cruiser or a Carrier. Armed with a variety of weapons, the Frigate is equally capable at fending off small fighters or bombarding larger ships. In its time it possessed relatively good maneuverability for a ship of its size, but now it sees continued use mostly due to the sheer number of them already built for service.
The Fury is Southbound Shipyards' most popular design of escort ship. They have greater firepower than any other interceptor-class vessel, meaning that any pirate flying solo will think twice before attacking a convoy that is accompanied by a Fury. However, Furies are also much less maneuverable than other small ships.
The Navy Gunboat is designed for engaging targets at short range, and also serves as the Navy's mobile sensor platform, scanning ships for illegal equipment or cargo.
Several centuries ago, in the early days of the Republic, the sudden increase in commerce and space travel led to high demand for cargo ships. Haulers were first created simply by bolting a cockpit and engine block onto a cargo container, and the basic design has not changed much since then.
This is a mid-sized freighter, designed for a balance between cargo capacity and defensive capability. Centuries ago, various Hauler models made up nearly half of the merchant vessels in service, but today the design is considered somewhat outdated.
Considered by many to be outdated, there are nonetheless many Haulers still in service due to their combination of comparatively low price and simple construction. This large version of the Hauler provides the best tradeoff between price and cargo space.
The Tarazed Hawk is an interceptor-class warship often used as an escort for freighters or in a planetary militia's patrol squadron. Hawks are fast enough to chase down most smaller ships, but are capable of mounting much more powerful weapons. They are also, of course, a favorite ship of pirate captains who have earned enough money to afford one.
The Headhunter is one of the newest ships designed by Lionheart: a versatile ship that can serve equally well for carrying cargo or for bounty hunting. As with many of Lionheart's designs, the hull is mostly composite fiber rather than metal, sacrificing armor strength for the sake of lighter weight and faster movement.
The Heavy Shuttle is an updated shuttle model from Betelgeuse Shipyards, attempting to improve on their perennial classic by offering slightly better cargo and passenger capacity, at the expense of some speed and maneuverability.
The Lance is the primary fighter used by the Republic Navy. As with all fighters, it is weak by itself but very effective as part of a larger squadron.
The Betelgeuse Shipyards Leviathan has been in service since long before the Republic existed. Although considered today to be an outdated and clunky model, it is still a force to be reckoned with.
This is a rare, extensively modified Behemoth used by some pirates and smugglers to transport large amounts of goods. It is armed well enough to handle even a Navy Frigate if caught and fast enough to dash away from anything bigger.
After their Quicksilver light warship with its armament of Particle Cannons became a large success with convoy escorts and planetary defense forces, Megaparsec decided to develop a larger ship with similar maneuverability but heavier firepower. The Manta is the result: a ship with enough long-range firepower that fleeing from a battle with it is almost impossible.
The Argosy has long been a favorite ship for pirates, who have come up with many tricks for modifying them to be more suitable as warships.
The Mule is as much of a hodgepodge as its looks suggest. The Lionheart ship designers combined a good deal of cargo space with a decent amount of weaponry and even a fighter bay, and ended up with a ship that is mostly used as a freighter but can also be used as a warship because of its heavy armament and shields. This hodgepodge nature has its downside, though, namely its high crew requirement and the fact that any dedicated ship of the same cost will do better in a specialized role than the Mule will.
Southbound Shipyards quickly answered the Free Worlds' call for a carrier by building modified cargo containers for Haulers - adding a pair of Fighter docking arms, some additional outfit space, and even a couple of bunks. Access to the fighters from within the ship is so inconvenient that most pilots opt to just stay aboard their fighters when in flight. While the technical name for this ship is "Hauler I: Type F," Southbound assembly workers started calling the single container variant the "Nest" due to its complement of Finch Fighters, and the name stuck.
This is a modified Blackbird for ground raids and slave trading. It comes with an extra turret mount for suppressive fire on ground operations and additional hull reinforcement to resist returning fire.
After the Blackbird gained surprising popularity as an agile light warship despite its original design as a transport, Tarazed decided to produce a new design specifically intended as a warship. The Osprey was the result. Although it is considered overpriced by most savvy pilots, it is nevertheless a perennial favorite among those who have the extra cash to spend on it.
Voted the "ugliest ship in the sky" by Stars and Starships Magazine, the Protector is a typical example of brutally efficient Syndicate engineering. It is basically nothing more than eight turrets attached to a set of engines and crew's quarters, designed as a defense platform that can accompany merchant convoys.
The Megaparsec Quicksilver is a warship built around a single concept: to design the smallest and fastest ship capable of carrying two Particle Cannons. Because of its speed and long weapons range, the Quicksilver can keep a safe distance from most targets and bombard them with particle bursts until they are destroyed. Unfortunately the Headhunter eventually surpassed the original design intent, but the Quicksilver's better durability to cost ratio, and the existence of long-term contracts, has kept it in use with Syndicate security forces.
The Rainmaker is a missile boat built in the Republic Navy Yard. It comes equipped with four missile launchers and enough ammunition to destroy even ships many times its size. Because of their lack of maneuverability and relatively light shielding, Rainmakers serve best as long-range attack ships, and once their missile supply is spent, they are relatively useless in combat.
The Lionheart Raven is their most popular warship, an agile and elegant vessel that can nevertheless deal out and absorb considerable damage. Ravens are a favorite ship for bounty hunters, because they are more than a match for pirate interceptors and can be used by a skilled pilot to take down much larger ships as well.
Southbound Shipyards' new fighter-carrying containers have created a new use for what many considered an outdated design. Four external fighter bays make this the biggest civilian carrier on the market, if a little awkward as a warship. After Southbound assembly workers successfully named the "Nest," "Hauler II: Type F" was quickly dubbed the "Roost" to continue the theme.
The Lionheart Scoutship was designed back in the days when the galaxy was more sparsely populated, and ships prospecting for habitable worlds or worlds rich in resources would often travel far away from any habitable ports where they would be able to refuel. Although the galaxy has now been much more thoroughly explored, the Scout remains a popular ship for long-distance travel.
Rather than being a specific model of ship, the Scrappers are instead a family of vessels cobbled together from the remains of broken shuttles. On the rare occasion that Republic authorities bother to recognize their existence, Scrappers are treated as almost-illegal, patent-infringing death traps. Despite this, these ships are where many captains (and pirates) from poorer backgrounds get their start.
	穿梭机的设计不是为了承受任何形式的战斗，但它们的速度和机动性足以让它们在受到更大、更慢的飞船攻击时脱离险境。虽然它们通常没有武器，但它们有足够的空间放置一种武器，这就是流行语 "像穿梭机上的爆破炮一样无用 "的起源。
This particular cockpit and engine set has found itself attached to three of Southbound Shipyards' new "Type F" Fighter-carrier pods. When the Free Worlds asked for a carrier, they did not expect one that would be able to carry more fighters than even the heaviest Navy warships. Given this fact, the Free Worlds have asked Southbound and Tarazed to restrict sale of the "Hauler III: Type F," "Skein" to its Militia only.
	政府报告显示，每三个首次购买麻雀号的人中就有两个人在拥有麻雀号的第一个月内失去了他们的船（往往也是他们的生命）。活得比这更久的飞行员往往会发誓用导弹发射器来替换库存武器。
The Splinter is the largest warship produced by the Megaparsec shipyard. It is designed to be faster and more maneuverable than other ships of a similar size, in order to serve as a heavy escort ship or as part of a planetary defense and patrol fleet. Because of its intended use in merchant convoys, it also has a fair amount of cargo space.
	由于它们经常携带有价值的货物，并且由于它们的速度太慢，无法躲避任何攻击者，所以星际驳船是海盗的常见目标。
The Star Queen is a relic of a more peaceful period of galactic history: a luxury liner for high-end tourists. Every cabin has its own mini-bar, and the bathrooms have marble tile and showers that use actual hot water instead of chemicals or sonic vibrations.
	In support of environmental movements across the galaxy, all Star Queens come standard with an array of solar panels as their only source of energy as opposed to more popular power generators such as fuel cells or nuclear reactors that produce some amount of waste. Although some argue that this is a pointless move given the prevalence of clean fusion reactors, others have applauded it and cited the prohibitive costs of fusion reactors as a reason for using solar panels.
Surveillance drones are unarmed drones used by the Republic navy to scan ships and planets in a star system.
Valkyries are pirate Aeries converted into more of a standalone warship than a support carrier. Losing a turret and a few bunks in place of increased armor protection, as well as boasting two more gun mounts, allows Valkyries to both take and put out noticeable amounts of damage. However, due to the extra weight, they are somewhat slower and lose a bit of shield efficiency.
The Vanguard is Syndicated Systems' newest warship intended for the heavy anti-pirate defense market. Vanguards offer an unusual feature set, focusing on powerful fixed guns and featuring Syndicated Systems' latest automation technologies, resulting in an atypically low crew complement for a ship its size. Few capital ships will endure for long under the withering fusillade of gunfire that it can unleash against those in front of it.
The Wasp is a medium-strength interceptor, designed by Syndicated Shipyards to serve as an escort for cargo vessels. Like most Syndicate ships, it is not particularly pretty, but it at least serves the purpose it was made for.
The Alphas were designed hundreds of years ago as genetically engineered super-soldiers, with no compassion or empathy. They escaped from their masters, enslaved entire planets, and commanded massive fleets of ships. Eventually they were defeated, and were either killed or went into hiding. They can be recognized by their green, photosynthetic skin.
Alphas can live for centuries, and it is likely that many of them have survived, hiding out on anarchist worlds or somewhere beyond human space. Fortunately, they reproduce much more slowly than ordinary humans do.
Today, throughout human space, is Remembrance Day, the anniversary of the beginning of the Alpha Wars more than five centuries ago. The Alphas were genetically engineered soldiers, with superhuman agility and intelligence, and a complete lack of compassion or empathy. At the height of the War, dozens of planets had been enslaved by the Alphas.
	Remembrance Day commemorates the beginning of the war, rather than its end, as a perpetual reminder that the war is not over: although the Alphas were defeated, some of them escaped and remained in hiding, and they and their offspring are presumed to still be present in the galaxy today.
	Since the Alpha War, genetic resequencing technology has been very tightly controlled. Because the Alphas were the product of experimental genetic manipulation rather than natural evolution, it is believed that their genes are less robust than true human beings, and they are almost unable to have viable offspring without access to special technology. Therefore, most Alpha enclaves that have been discovered since the War have had very small populations, no more than a few dozen.
	In these days when the Navy ensures peace throughout much of the galaxy, on many worlds the Alphas are treated as nothing more than a bogeyman story to frighten children. Because the most striking physical feature of the Alphas was their photosynthetic skin, on some worlds kids even run around wearing green face paint on Remembrance Day, trying to frighten people. But on other worlds, especially on the fringes of space where the Navy seldom patrols, the Alphas are still spoken of with fear.
Until recently, Geminus was home to the Republic Navy Yard, the largest shipyard in human space. Now, there is nothing left of the shipyard but a gaping crater in the ground, from the recent terrorist bombing.
Fortunately, the spaceport and residential areas survived the bombing, which was focused only on the Navy yard and happened early in the morning, when very few people were at work.
The Navy officers who are in charge here have no time for anyone who is not enlisted in the Navy and participating in the ongoing investigation.
Martini is a world of exotic beaches and perfect weather. The Republic's central bank and the galactic stock exchange were previously headquartered here, before a terrorist attack destroyed them and a large portion of the capital city as well.
	Bourne is also the seat of government for the newly formed Free Worlds.
The Free Worlds is a collection of local governments in the southern galactic arm who have declared independence from the Republic after Parliament refused to address issues they raised about trade tariffs, taxation, and representation. They may be linked to the recent terrorist attacks on the Navy Yard and the galactic stock exchange, although they deny responsibility.
The moment you step off your ship you realize something is very wrong. The spaceport is eerily quiet, and a large crowd of people is gathered around a video screen in the local bar.
	You ask what is happening, and someone explains. Recently, a collection of planetary governments in the southern galactic arm have sent the Republic what amounted to an ultimatum: a refusal to pay taxes until reforms are made in the election of planetary representatives. This group, calling itself the "Free Worlds," has also asked for immediate reevaluation of all existing trade tariffs and regulations concerning pilot registration. Parliament outright refused to consider any of these demands.
	Then, in the early morning, nuclear explosions on Geminus and Martini destroyed the Republic Navy Yard and the Galactic Stock Exchange, crippling the military and economic center of the Republic. The "Free Worlds" disclaim any responsibility for the attacks, despite the timing and the fact that the attacks serve their purposes very well.
	Unless the terrorists can be found or turn themselves in, civil war is imminent. It has been less than a year since you bought your ship, and already the galaxy is falling apart on you.
Because Ingot has almost no atmosphere to slow them down, meteorites are a constant danger to the colonists. The shells of the buildings have multiple layers, designed to be self-sealing in any but the largest of impacts. Most of the mining is done remotely by robotic vehicles, but someone still needs to be present to control them and to make repairs when something goes wrong.
Ingot is also now home to a burgeoning Navy base, although since the planet is so unlivable most of the troops are just living in ships in orbit.
Due to the somewhat dim light of the star Algorel, and the cloudiness of the atmosphere, this is not a good world for farming, and the population remains quite small.
The Republic Navy has planted a base on New Wales: so far, just a densely packed cluster of prefabricated barracks and infirmary buildings on the outskirts of one of the mining colonies.
The few settlements that have been built here were developed for mining sapphires and rubies. The sapphires found in New Austria range from blue to yellow to black to clear in color, and are used both for industrial abrasives and for jewelry.
For centuries the locals have tried to find a deposit of diamonds, and local folklore revolves around the prosperity that would come to this world if diamonds were ever discovered.
The Navy has recently requisitioned one of the abandoned mining towns and begun refurbishing it for a secure military base, with the mining tunnels used as deep underground bunkers.
The spaceport of Zug has been growing by amalgamation for centuries. At its core is the "Old Port," a set of quaint and rudimentary shops and warehouses. The landing pads for the Old Port were torn up to make room for what the locals call "The Port," a set of buildings that were constructed a century ago, with bolder architecture and more modern design.
	Some distance away is the "New Port," a towering structure with robotic cargo lifts and large hangars for more expensive ships. Meanwhile, an expansion to the New Port is currently ongoing. You can't help but wonder what the new expansion will be named.
	Some distance away is the "New Port," a towering structure with robotic cargo lifts and large hangars for more expensive ships. It was recently expanded to handle the increased activity demanded by the Free Worlds, making Zug the chief ship foundry of the galactic south. It's not surprising to learn that the addition to the New Port has quickly been dubbed "The Expansion."
The mining outpost is swarming with Navy guards; they seem to have turned this moon into a temporary base of operations. The mine has been shut down, and no one is being allowed in or out of the mining outpost. It is not clear whether the miners are prisoners, or merely under a very tight watch.
	There are hundreds of Navy officers patrolling this small spaceport, looking for any signs of local resistance.
The miners who work here are a tight-knit group, since most of them were part of the original colonization team. They are not particularly open to outsiders, and the facilities here are so rudimentary that they do not even stock fuel for visiting ships.
	Lately the Navy base on Farpoint is growing, because it has become the new home of the Navy Oathkeepers, a small branch of the Navy that has sworn to stay uninvolved in the conflict with the Free Worlds.
	Winter is home to the Free Worlds Conservatory, a new university that is focused on making terraforming technology and expertise available at a reasonable price, as well as on ecological protection and renewal.
Thule is a mountainous world with a population of nearly a billion, settled in the early days of space exploration. When the colony was first established, the Earth government did not yet have the strength to control any system but its own, and when the Republic was formed, Thule did not join, and has repulsed all efforts to force them to do so.
	Until recently, Thule was a well-known den of pirate activity, but the major tribal authorities have now forsworn piracy in the interest of keeping the Free Worlds from further meddling in their affairs. However, it is likely that all manner of illegal activity is still going on in secret here.
Smuggler's Den was formerly known as Grendel Station, back when it was an operating refinery. After that, it was taken over by pirates, and became a haven for all manner of smugglers and privateers. Now, at least in theory it is an independent station, no longer allied with the pirates. In practice, you suspect a fair amount of piracy still goes on here.
The repair shops here can make a variety of legal and illegal modifications to your ship, and in the shipyard you can buy refurbished starships... if it does not trouble your conscience to think about the likely fates of their previous owners.
It is a strange but indisputable fact that anarchists smell worse than ordinary human beings. In this day and age, where even the cheapest shuttlecraft at least has a sonic shower, there is no logical explanation for it, except that anarchist tendencies must somehow go hand in hand with a tendency to reject society's norms around hygiene. Here in a space station, with nothing but recycled air to breathe, the effect is overpowering.
Greenrock was the closest thing that the pirates in southern human space had to a center of government, at least until the Free Worlds occupied it. When rival pirate bands sought to negotiate on neutral territory, this is where they met. Nearly everything was for sale here: illegal weapons, ships customized for pirating, and even slaves.
	Now that the Free Worlds is occupying the system, Greenrock has become a marginally more respectable world. Pirates still run wild in the wilderness of the planet, but the Free Worlds is actively arresting criminals and freeing slaves in the population centers.
You have heard enough about this port's reputation that you are not surprised to see the remnants of slave markets, now empty as a result of the Free Worlds occupation. The normally shady establishments are now filled with militia and the occasional merchant captain looking to explore the planet while it's still in Free Worlds hands.
	Despite the Free Worlds presence, dark alleyways are still to be avoided. Down one alley you see a shop called "Mike's Mustelids," the inside overrun by weasels, ferrets, and wolverines that were once caged there.
	That was until the Free Worlds occupied the system and cleaned up many of the major population centers. With the Free Worlds gone though, the planet has begun to return to its natural state of crime and villainy.
You have heard enough about this port's reputation that you are not surprised to see the remnants of slave markets, now empty as a result of the Free Worlds occupation. The spaceport's shady establishments are beginning to return to their normal clientele and services.
	With the Free Worlds now gone, dark alleyways are absolutely to be avoided. Down one alley you see a shop called "Mike's Mustelids," the inside like a jungle. You hear the howls and yells of various exotic animals coming from inside, and the alleyway is home to a number of presumably-escaped weasels, ferrets, and wolverines running about.
	The Free Worlds occupied this planet for a short while long ago, attempting to clean up the criminal hub, but almost all traces of the Free Worlds' influence on the planet is now long gone.
	Everything, in fact, including the very bizarre. You find one dark alley that has been completely fenced off from the rest of the spaceport, the howls of animals coming from behind the barrier. Beside the alley you see a sign for a shop called "Mike's Mustelids," promising the sale of "exotic animals from within Greenrock's urban spaceport jungle."
	In the wake of their defeat in the south, the Navy has begun to set up a massive new base here on New Iceland, in order to allow them to continue to have a strong presence in this sector.
Recently, the Free Worlds have converted Clink into a prison colony for Navy officers and support staff who were captured in the battle for the Rastaban system.
The starport is a hodgepodge of small metal structures, built from the remains of Navy and pirate ships that fought for control of this world. The locals here welcome you to their planet heartily.
	The tavern in the center of the port is named The Parting Glass. Its walls are covered with photographs from after the war: liberated slaves boarding Navy ships to leave this planet that had brought them so much pain; Navy officers leaving their ships to retire on this world that they liberated; friends gone away; friends left behind. There are newer pictures, too: a Cruiser and two Falcons, side by side; armored troops walking away from a factory; a familiar captain talking to a man you know as Commander Nguyen. It is a strange feeling to be shown among heroes of a history that you have had only the smallest effect on.
The starport is a hodgepodge of small metal structures, built from the remains of Navy and pirate ships that fought for control of this world. The locals are unusually courteous and friendly to most of the captains landing here, but not to you.
	The tavern in the center of the port is named The Parting Glass. As you enter the building, you notice the tavern gradually become quieter and quieter, until all that you can hear is the rattling of the air conditioner and the clinking of glasses. At the same time, you feel the heat of several dozen eyes looking directly at you. You decide it best to leave before things escalate further.
Bloodsea is nearly uninhabited, except for a few small outposts. Its name comes from the planet's oceans, which are blood-red due to rhodophyte algae. Although the climate is temperate and there are many white sand beaches, no one comes here hoping to go swimming.
	Until recently, this was a pirate world, but as the Free Worlds continued to expand they saw the writing on the wall and decided to become a civilized world. The Free Worlds is building a new spaceport here, but that will take months, and in the meantime the old spaceport is still in use.
	Recently, with the help of the Free Worlds, a new spaceport was completed here. Bloodsea was formerly a pirate world, but the new spaceport has given it an air of respectability, and already a small number of settlers and curious tourists have begun flowing in.
The new spaceport is impressively well designed, with seawalls and landing pads of crisp, newly-set concrete, still unmarked by weather or mildew. It is also several times larger than necessary for the number of people and ships that are here, and aside from a lively market, it feels strangely empty.
	Some things remain unchanged from back in the pirate days. The local slang incorporates threats of extreme violence as a seemingly meaningless verbal tic. "Hey, I'm gonna cut off your fingers one by one until you buy a meat patty!" a vendor calls out cheerfully as you pass. "First one's free, and I'll tie a knot in your spine if you don't like it."
	Until recently, this was a pirate world, but they are now officially "independent," forswearing support for piracy and other criminal activity as a result of being dominated by the Free Worlds militia. You get the feeling that most of the locals are not too fond of the Free Worlds, however.
	Recently, the Free Worlds has liberated Albatross from their pirate oppressors, but many of the locals remain skeptical, seeing the Free Worlds as little different from the other protection rackets that have held sway over them.
For centuries the locals have been trying to find a deposit of diamonds, which would sell for much higher prices than sapphires, and local folklore revolves around the prosperity that would come to this world if diamonds were ever discovered.
Geminus, although not the most hospitable of worlds, is a young enough planet that large stores of iron, titanium, and other metals are easily accessible near the surface. The constant volcanic activity leaves the planet perpetually shrouded in a twilight haze of ash and fog.
	The shattered remnants of the old Navy Yard are still left abandoned and slowly rusting away in the planet's caustic atmosphere, but the Republic has now built a new shipyard to replace the one destroyed in the bombing, and once again Geminus has become a central hub of technology and industry.
Like everything else on Geminus, the spaceport is not terribly pretty, but is functional and efficient. Each of the wide hallways is marked out like a road, with space in the center for electric carts carrying cargo, while pedestrians are relegated to the edges. Video cameras and sensors have been placed at every intersection, and access to the shipbuilding facilities is tightly controlled.
Warship Testing
Travel to the <waypoints> system to fight and disable a prototype warship that Tarazed Corporation is testing. Do not destroy the ship, or you will lose your payment and your opportunity to buy one.
As you are visiting one of the spaceport bars, a man recognizes you. "<first> <last>!" he says. "It's an honor to meet you. Your exploits in battle are well known." He picks up his drink and walks over to sit next to you. "My name is Charles Atinoda," he says, "the chief starship designer for Tarazed Corporation. Say, would you be willing to help us test out a new warship?"
	"Tell me more."
	"Sorry, I don't have time right now."
	"Well," he says, "here's the story. Seven years ago, in a time of deep personal crisis, I left my job at Tarazed to wander the galaxy with nothing in my backpack but a change of clothes, a canteen of water, and a few boxes of emergency rations. An anarchist commune on one of the fringe worlds took me in. After I had been there for a month, the village elder, sensing my inner turmoil, invited me to a vision quest in their sweat lodge. I fell into a trance and my consciousness journeyed through many universes, where I saw strange things. I saw a sword made of light. I saw a blue sun. I saw..." He pauses for a moment. "... a Welsh Corgi hacking into a computer? Some of it was hard to understand."
	"Fascinating."
	"Were there illicit substances involved in this vision quest?"
	He ignores your question. "But then I saw one more thing," he says.
	"But then I saw one more thing," he says.
	He is silent for a long moment, then says, "I saw a dark ship, more graceful and elegant than any I had ever designed, battling an alien vessel with a mottled red hull. And when I saw that ship, I knew that I must build one like it. I hitched a ride back to Wayfarer, begged for my old job back, and got to work. Seven years later, the ship is nearly done. It has passed all our non-destructive testing with flying colors, which leaves only the combat test remaining. And who better to battle it than the renowned warrior, <first> <last>?"
	"I would be glad to."
	"What will I receive in return?"
	"A generous payment," he says, "and the right to purchase one of the very first units off the production line, if you wish."
	"Sounds fair," you say.
	"Excellent," he says. "I'll need your signature on a few forms. Waivers of liability in case you die, permission to use your name and likeness in certain promotional materials. You know, the usual legal stuff."
	"No problem. Where will I battle this ship?"
	"Sorry, I don't think I can agree to that."
	"We do most of our starship testing in the <waypoints> system," he says. "The test ship is unmistakable. Journey there, disable it without destroying it, then return here and we'll ask you about any weaknesses you found or improvements you would make. And if you destroy the ship or steal it, naturally you will forfeit your payment."
Atinoda meets up with you soon after you land. "I see that you survived," he says. "Was it a difficult fight?"
	"Yes, you have built an impressive ship."
	"No, I'm afraid I made short work of it."
	"Glad to hear it," he says. "Now, we have the opportunity to make a few tweaks before we start mass-producing this ship. What changes would you recommend?"
	"Oh well," he says, "you are the infamous <first> <last>, after all, so I suppose any single warship will be little threat to you. Now, we have the opportunity to make a few tweaks before we start mass-producing this ship. What changes would you recommend?"
	"Lots of weapon space is always my first priority."
	"You should make sure it has enough space for any engine."
	"Maybe you should work on improving the shields and hull."
	"Very well," he says, "we'll see if we can expand the weapon capacity so that even the biggest weapons will fit."
	"Very well," he says, "we'll see if we can expand the engine capacity enough that even the biggest engines will fit."
	"Okay," he says, "we'll focus on strengthening the hull and the shield matrix."
	"Does the ship model have a name yet?" you ask.
	"Not yet," he says. "Do you have a suggestion?"
	"The Wraith."
	"The Grey Goose."
	"Not a bad name, I suppose," he says, "but at Tarazed we usually name our ships after animals. Any other ideas?"
	"The Dire Wolf."
	"The Kestrel."
	"I suppose it does sort of look like a goose in flight," he says, "but that's hardly an intimidating name. Do you have any scarier ideas?"
	"The Reaper."
	"Not bad," he says, "but all our other ships - the Falcon, the Osprey, the Hawk - they're all birds. Maybe a bird name?"
	"I don't know," he says, "that sounds a little bit over the top. Any other suggestions?"
	When you say the word 'Kestrel' he jerks as if he's just been electrocuted. "Yes," he says, "that's it! That's the name we'll go with. Thank you, Captain. I will let you know as soon as the Kestrel is available for sale, and we will take your recommendations into account when making our final modifications to the design." He pays you two million credits and wishes you the best of luck in your future endeavors.
You receive a message from Charles Atinoda, the ship designer at Tarazed Corporation: "Captain <last>, we are pleased to inform you that our latest warship is now available for sale here on Wayfarer. We've taken all your feedback into account in the final design. Thank you again!"
Several years ago, while visiting a sweat lodge in search of spiritual renewal, Tarazed's chief ship designer fell into a trance and journeyed to a reality separate from our own. There he saw visions of a strange and elegant starship. Returning to his work with renewed purpose, he spent the next seven years making the Kestrel a reality.
A Free Worlds captain is waiting for you when you land and takes a copy of your scanner logs, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
Scouting Run
Fly through the <waypoints> system and scout it out for Navy activity. Then return to <destination> by <date> where your ship's scanner logs will be analyzed. Payment is <payment>.
You have landed on <planet>, but you have yet to scout out all the marked systems. Visit all the systems marked on your map before returning.
Fly through the <waypoints> systems and scout them out for Navy activity. Then return to <destination> by <date> where your ship's scanner logs will be analyzed. Payment is <payment>.
The captain of the <npc> thanks you for escorting them safely, and the shipyard pays you <payment> for helping to deliver the supplies.
Convoy to <planet>
The shipyard on <planet> is in need of more supplies for building warships. Immediately escort a convoy of ships to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You have reached <planet>, but you left part or all of the convoy behind! Better depart and wait for them to arrive in this star system.
Reinforcements to <planet>
These <bunks> Free Worlds soldiers require immediate transport to <destination> by <date> in order to reinforce the frontlines. Payment is <payment>.
You unload the Free Worlds soldiers into the busy spaceport of <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
A Free Worlds captain stationed on <planet> thanks you for delivering the much-needed supplies.
The Free Worlds captains stationed on <planet> thank you for delivering the much-needed supplies.
Resupply <planet>
The outfitter on <planet> is running low on supplies and needs to be restocked immediately. Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
The frontlines of the war are in need of a resupply. Immediately deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You deliver the care package of <commodity> to the specified address and explain to the people where the care package came from. They thank you for delivering it, and you collect your payment of <payment>.
Care package to <planet>
A citizen of the Free Worlds is worried about family members in the Republic. Immediately deliver a care package of <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
A citizen of the Republic is worried about family members in the Free Worlds. Immediately deliver a care package of <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Your passengers thank you graciously for taking them away from the dangerous frontlines of the war. You wish them the best of luck on <planet>, and collect your payment of <payment>.
Refugees to <planet>
These <bunks> passengers would like to escape the frontlines of the war and immediately settle on <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Pickup from Hephaestus
Escort a convoy of freighters to <stopovers> where they will pick up materials needed for scientific experiments. Return the convoy to <destination> by <date> for payment (<payment>).
You are approached by a man in a Deep Security uniform who asks if you would be willing to escort a few freighters to <stopovers> and back by <day>. "We would normally have our own fleet do it," he says, "but we're short on available ships given certain circumstances."
	"Sorry, but I won't be traveling in that direction any time soon."
	"Good. Before you leave, know that there may be pirate forces waiting for you in Alphard, Sirius, and Altair. You can try to avoid them, but make sure you get the freighters back on time."
	The Deep Security officer wishes you good luck and walks off, leaving you to wonder how he knows where pirate fleets might be waiting for you.
You arrive at the pickup location on the night side of Hephaestus. The Syndicate employees who load the freighters do not allow you to see what is inside the cargo, and advise you to leave quickly once the cargo is loaded.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or you left part of the convoy behind.
A Deep Security officer greets you when you return to <planet> with the freighters. The officer hands you <payment> and thanks you for accepting the job on such short notice. "We'll make sure to contact you in the future should we need your help. If you want to help us further at the moment, I suggest you check the job boards in the Deep for mystery delivery and retrieval jobs."
Pickup from Tarazed
As you are walking through the spaceport, a woman in a Deep Security uniform stops you. "You're Captain <last>, correct?" You nod. "Would you be willing to transport a handful of freighters to <stopovers> to pick up some cargo? We'd need them to return here by <day>. Normally this kind of job would be done by Deep Security, but we have no ships to spare at the moment."
	"Thank you, Captain. Before you go, I need to inform you that you may encounter pirate fleets near Tania Australis, Muphrid, and Ascella, and you might not have time to go around these systems."
	The Deep Security officer wishes you good luck and walks off, leaving you to wonder how she knows where pirate fleets might be waiting for you.
You and the freighters are directed to park in a private hangar owned by the Tarazed Corporation. While watching the cargo crates get loaded onto the freighters, you notice that the crates have labels on them which read "To be opened by addressee only" in large red letters.
Pickup from Kraz
A Deep Security officer approaches you when you enter the spaceport and asks if you would be able to do a job for the Deep. "We're short on Deep Security ships at the moment, but we need three Behemoths escorted to <stopovers>. After they pick up the cargo, bring them back here by <day>."
	"Much appreciated, Captain. And for your well-being as well as that of the cargo, you must know that there may be pirates waiting in Algieba, Cor Caroli, and Wei. Behemoths are tough ships, so you should be able to travel through those systems and not slow yourself down by taking alternative routes."
When you arrive, Kraz Cybernetics already has the cargo waiting by the spaceport. After a few hours of loading the massive freighters, the spaceport crew gives you the 'all clear' signal, and the Behemoth captains get ready to depart.
Gaining an Edge
Land on the designated systems to place the mysterious cubes that Lieutenant Paris has given you, then return to <destination>.
A Deep Security officer calls your name and approaches you as you enter the spaceport's central market. "Greetings, Captain <last>, I'm Lieutenant Paris. Would you be interested in conducting some more work for the Deep? We are currently in need of a few extra ships to assist in an ongoing situation."
	"I'd love to help. What's the situation?"
	"Sorry, but I can't help right now."
	"Whatever plans you have, I suggest you change them, as this is an urgent situation."
	"Okay, I'll help. What is the situation?"
	"Then I can't help you. Sorry."
	"Excellent. I'm sure that you are aware that much of Deep Security is currently preoccupied, hence why we have been recruiting merchants to escort many of the Deep's convoys. The reason this is the case is that we have been attempting to detain a particularly meddlesome pirate warlord who goes by the name of 'Beelzebub.' From what we can ascertain, Beelzebub has extensive knowledge on the inner workings of Deep Security, which is making tracking him down rather difficult, as he seems to know our every move. That is where you and a few other merchants come in."
	Paris reaches into his pocket and pulls out a bag. Inside of the bag are at least two dozen of the mysterious cubes that you have transported in the past, only with one distinct difference: a thick red streak running down the middle of each cube.
	"The Deep requires that you place these on a number of worlds in the Dirt Belt which I will mark on your map for you. Place at least four of these devices around the spaceport of each marked planet, then come to <destination> where I will collect any remaining cubes that you may have. If a Deep Security ship did this then it would likely catch the attention of any pirates in the system and that information would make its way to Beelzebub, but random merchants should be inconspicuous enough to throw Beelzebub off our trail. Is that clear?"
	"Crystal clear, Lieutenant. I will prepare to leave shortly."
	"What do these cubes do?"
	"I don't believe that I am authorized to tell you that. Just know that they will help us catch Beelzebub."
	"Understood. I'll place the cubes for you."
	"This feels too secretive for me. I don't want to help anymore."
You have placed cubes on the last of the planets that Paris has asked you to. When you look into the bag you find that there are three left. Go to <destination> to give the remaining cubes to Paris.
You find Lieutenant Paris waiting for you in the spaceport. You hand him the bag of remaining cubes, and he hands you <payment> for helping.
	"Is there anything else that you need me to do?"
	"Are you able to tell me what the cubes are for?"
	Paris takes a moment to pause before responding. "They're sensor devices. They are used to track the movement of pirate fleets, but they are almost useless alone; dozens could be needed in a single system to track entire fleets. The ones that I gave you were fine-tuned though, designed to only detect the ship that we know that Beelzebub is using. That is all that I am allowed to tell you, at least for the time being."
	"Not at the moment, Captain, but I'll contact you should anything else arise."
Travel to <planet>
Travel to <destination> to learn more about the situation with the warlord Beelzebub.
You receive a message from Lieutenant Paris. "Greetings, Captain. The situation involving Beelzebub has gone slightly sour, and the Navy is involved now. I have been asked to gather the merchants who assisted the Deep previously in placing the cubes. If you are interested, please come to <destination>."
Blockading the Devil
Travel to <destination> to set up a blockade in hopes of capturing the warlord Beelzebub.
A pair of men in Navy uniforms escort you to a restricted area of the Luna facility. One of them uses a keycard to open an elevator and ushers you in. The elevator opens up many floors below the spaceport, to an area of the facility that looks far newer than that on the surface.
	You are kept in what looks like a waiting room along with five others. After a bit of talking, you find out that these are the other merchant captains who helped place the cubes across different regions of the galaxy.
	An hour of waiting passes, and Lieutenant Paris walks into the room followed by a Navy admiral. "I hope you are all enjoying your stay," the admiral remarks. "Now. How is it that most of the cubes you placed were mysteriously disabled shortly after pirates entered each system?"
	The admiral looks to each of the captains in the room, seemingly waiting for a response.
	"Maybe they know how to detect the cubes."
	The admiral looks at you. "Doubtful." Paris nods, as if to back up this claim.
	He clears his throat and continues, "Allow me to explain the situation. Roughly two weeks after the last of your 'deliveries' were activated, the sensors identified Beelzebub's ship in the northern reaches of the Dirt Belt. We dispatched half of the nearest Navy garrison to apprehend the vessel, only to arrive and find a convoy of Star Barges instead.
	"Worse, while our ships were in pursuit of the decoys, a pirate fleet managed to assault their home base and captured a handful of docked Cruisers. And, amidst the chaos, most of the cubes you placed in the Dirt Belt and Core were disabled!"
	Before the admiral can work himself up further, Paris intercedes with the rest of the story. "The cubes that Deep Security had you position on multiple worlds were surveillance devices - sensor cubes, as we call them - designed to track Beelzebub's ship and notify us when the ship was located. It can be presumed that Beelzebub now has access to these cubes and has undoubtedly converted them to work in his favor. It may take us weeks to retrieve them, but at the moment it can be assumed that Beelzebub knows where we will be."
	"Why are you involving us in this?"
	"Are we part of a plan to take Beelzebub down?"
	"Beelzebub is perhaps the most wanted pirate warlord since the 28th century. With both Navy and Deep technology now in the hands of this criminal, every available ship will be required to take him down. Given this, we are now hoping that you would be willing to assist us in trapping Beelzebub. The six of your fleets combined would certainly make up for anything that the Navy has lost in the attack."
	"How much will we be paid?" one of the other merchant captains asks. "At minimum, one million credits," the admiral replies. The captain who asked instantly agrees to help, as do two others.
	"I'll help as well."
	"Sorry, but I am not interested in helping."
	One other merchant captain also declines, and you both are escorted out of the room, into the waiting elevator. The trip back to the surface is silent, and your escort dismisses you both with a simple "Goodbye."
	In the end, only one of the merchant captains declines. She is escorted out of the room, and the admiral explains each merchant captain's new role.
	"We assume that Beelzebub knows where we will be, but we know where he is as well - the stolen Cruisers and the pirate fleet that attacked our base moved toward the Core. Given the severity of the crime that Beelzebub has just committed, he will undoubtedly attempt to get as far away from the law as possible. That leaves us only two possible destinations: Buccaneer Bay, or the anarchist colonies of the Far North. Our best guess is that the colonies are the more appealing option to a warlord.
	"We'll be setting up multiple blockades in hopes of boxing Beelzebub in as a number of fleets sweep the galaxy. Captain <last>, you will be stationed on <destination> with Lieutenant Paris and a small Navy fleet. Please gather your things and travel there immediately."
You have reached <planet>, but some of your escorts have not yet reached the system. Wait for all escorts to enter the system before landing.
Defend <planet>
Destroy the pirates attacking <planet>.
Several of the <planet> spaceport landing pads are suitable for even the largest of Navy capital ships. Paris explains to you that at one time this world was used as a major Navy base, but has since been replaced by Farpoint closer to the Far North anarchist worlds.
	Once every ship is parked, a captains' briefing is held on an empty landing pad. "Don't expect this job to be fun," Lieutenant Paris states. "We could be waiting around here for days before anything happens, and we need to stay in system the entire time."
	"What do we do while we wait?"
	"For now, you can walk around the spaceport and see what there might be to do, but don't stray too far, otherwise you might never get back to your ship in time." Paris hands you a communication device. "This way you can be notified when something happens regardless of where you are. I'm going to stay on my ship and monitor the incoming transmissions."
	(Wander the spaceport.)
	(Stay near my ship.)
	Other than the occasional blaring of a train whistle, the spaceport of <planet> is rather tranquil. You pass the time by talking to a few tourists, most of whom are getting ready to go rock climbing. While walking through the restaurant district, the ground begins to shake slightly. Many of the locals don't even react to the earthquake, and eventually it subsides. Once you have walked through the entire spaceport and seen all that it has to offer, you begin to make your way back to your ship.
	One of the Navy crewmen produces a football from their cabin, and a small game begins inside of an open landing pad. Others try to pass the time by reading or writing. Everyone comes to a standstill though once the ground begins to rumble; an earthquake. A Navy member calls out to everyone. "Don't worry, this is a small one. We get earthquakes like this a lot on Gemstone." The shaking eventually subsides, and you decide to go into your ship to rest.
	Suddenly, your communication device beeps and you hear Lieutenant Paris' voice, "The blockade in Mirfak has just been attacked. I repeat, the blockade in Mirfak has just been attacked. Reports are that the blockade has sustained heavy losses as the pirate fleet included one of the stolen Cruisers."
	A rather young recruit asks, "Should we go help them?" to which a senior officer responds, "We were given orders and we're going to follow them unless told otherwise." The comms fall silent, and the waiting resumes.
	A few anxious hours pass with no new information. Suddenly, without warning, one of the Ravens takes off and your communications device begins blaring. "A pirate fleet just jumped into the system, alongside two Navy Cruisers painted in pirate colors!" All the captains and their crew scatter for their ships, ready to fight.
Rendezvous on <planet>
Travel to <destination> with reinforcements for its blockade.
Despite the commandeered Navy Cruisers, the pirates were unable to break through the blockade. After all of your group has landed, Paris invites the captains into his ship and makes contact with mission control. He relays the battle report, and you hear that the blockade in Matar was also attacked, but no stolen Cruisers were sighted.
	"What are your orders, Admiral?" Paris asks over the comms.
	"Lieutenant, your report makes three Cruisers accounted for, yet still no sign of Beelzebub. Our recon fleets have almost reached the blockades, meaning we'll catch this warlord soon enough. After the Navy fleet sweeping toward your post enters Nihal, I want you to lead everyone to <destination>. Beelzebub may be planning an attack on the blockade there with the remaining three Cruisers."
	"Understood sir." After contacting the captain of the Navy fleet approaching <origin>, Paris holds a short all-hands briefing to inform the crew that they should be ready to leave for <destination> in a few hours.
Alnitak is in chaos when you enter the system. An outnumbered defense fleet is fighting a group of pirate ships, and among the pirates your sensors identify the three stolen Cruisers.
You have landed on <planet>, but there are still pirates attacking the system. Defeat all of the pirates in order to complete this mission.
Beelzebub, as many call them, is one of the most notorious pirates in human space. They're responsible for committing countless acts of crimes against both humanity and the Republic government and are still at large somewhere in the galaxy despite a major setback.
As you come in for a landing, you can see that a number of buildings have taken fire from the pirate fleet above. White tents have been set up to tend to the wounded and multiple ships are being repaired. You are directed to an unscathed building in which a number of Navy officers, the admiral you met on Luna, Lieutenant Paris, and your fellow merchant captains have convened. After you enter the room and get settled down, the admiral begins to speak.
	"Here's the sitrep. Beelzebub's ship was spotted entering the system, followed by the rest of the pirate fleet. His ship seemed to disappear in the confusion, so we have no idea where he went. Either Beelzebub is currently hiding on the anarchist worlds or made a dash for the Core, in which case the chase goes on."
	"Beelzebub can't have gone to the Core," Paris butts in. "We traveled here through the uninhabited systems. We would have seen Beelzebub had he gone that way."
	"That's good news then. All we have to do is wait Beelzebub out until he decides to poke his little head back out.
	"Luckily, all six stolen Cruisers are accounted for, albeit destroyed. Deep Security forces have begun to collect the stolen sensor cubes. We can confirm that Beelzebub was watching our every move, since the cubes are being found all over the Paradise Worlds and Core. They should all be retrieved within the next week." The admiral then turns to the merchant captains. "Now that Beelzebub doesn't have the upper hand anymore, you are no longer needed. As promised, <payment> will be transferred to each of your accounts for your services."
	"Thank you, Admiral," one of the captains replies.
	"No, thank you. All of you. You didn't have to accept this risk but you did, and I speak for the whole Navy when I say that we are grateful for that."
Find "There Might Be Riots"
Find and convince "There Might Be Riots" to throw a concert on <destination>.
When you enter the <origin> spaceport, you hear what is undoubtedly a "There Might Be Riots" song playing loudly enough for everyone in the spaceport to hear. A quick glance around reveals the source of the noise to be the external speakers of a nearby Bounder and several people dancing.
	(Dance with them.)
	(See what's going on.)
	You approach the Bounder and count five people dancing in total: three women and two men. One of the women dancing notices you walking over and exclaims, "Looks like someone else is about to join the party!" Her shout is met by a raucous cheer from the rest of the dancers, but you refuse to dance when they try to pull you into the fray.
	After the music begins to subside, one of the dancers introduces himself to you as Garrison. Garrison then lists off the names of his fellow dancers: Pierre, Rayna, Hannah, and Laura. As you make your introductions, you learn that everyone here is part of the same research team, working for one of the Deep's many science bureaus, and they are currently wrapping up a short vacation by listening to their favorite band before they travel to Midgard on assignment.
	You approach the Bounder and count five people dancing in total: three women and two men. One of the women dancing notices you walking over and exclaims, "Looks like someone else is about to join the party!" Her shout is met by a raucous cheer from the rest of the dancers, and they pull you into the fray.
	After a few minutes of dancing, the music begins to subside. One of the dancers introduces himself to you as Garrison, and lists off the names of his fellow dancers: Pierre, Rayna, Hannah, and Laura. As you make your introductions, you learn that everyone here is part of the same research team, working for one of the Deep's many science bureaus, and they are currently wrapping up a short vacation by listening to their favorite band before they travel to Midgard on assignment.
	"How do you know about 'There Might Be Riots?'" Hannah asks you.
	"I've met them."
	"I just like to listen to their music."
	One of the other scientists, an older looking man named Pierre, looks right at you and stares. After a few moments he says, "I know you! You were in the 'Songs for the End of Civilization' broadcast from Pilot!" The rest of the scientists start agreeing with him as they look at you closer.
	"You know 'There Might Be Riots?' You are so lucky!" says Rayna.
	"I couldn't even see them during the 'Trouble on the Tarmac' tour, but you've met them? That's insane!" shrieks Laura.
	Hannah chimes in, "Do you know where the band is? They've been quiet for a while now, ever since that broadcast. I heard rumors that the Republic detained them for trespassing, but since you're here..."
	"I know where they are and rest assured, they're safe."
	"Sorry, I don't know where they are."
	The group falls silent until Rayna asks "Do you think you could bring them to us for a live concert?"
	"I'd love to."
	"No thanks. I have better things to do."
	All five scientists burst out in a cheer, clearly excited for the chance to see their favorite band live. As the cheering dies down Laura says, "We must get going now, <first>. We're being stationed on Midgard for the next few months, so if you do find 'There Might Be Riots,' please bring them there." Each member of the group says goodbye to you as they depart.
	The group looks visibly disappointed. A few minutes of talking later, they inform you that they must depart for Midgard and say their farewells.
Reunite with the band
A human on <origin> indicated she saw "There Might Be Riots" perform on <destination> last week. Hopefully they are still there.
It takes you a while, but after a few hours of asking around the spaceport, you finally find someone who knows where the band is. "I saw them on <destination>," she says. "They were throwing a pretty gnarly concert just last week. I haven't heard of them playing anywhere else, so they might still be there."
Transport band to <planet>
Give the band "There Might Be Riots" a ride to <destination> so that they can perform for the Deep scientists.
You have reached <origin>, but you'll need <capacity> to continue this mission. Return here when you have the required space free.
You find "There Might Be Riots" playing a gig right in the spaceport of <origin>. Judging by the large number of Hai in the audience, they seem to have amassed quite the following, even in Hai space.
	While the band intermixes crowd favorites and some new songs clearly inspired by their time in Hai space, you make your way to the side of the makeshift stage. Once the concert ends, Ulrich notices you and approaches.
	"Captain <last>, it's been a while! We've been having a great time with the peaceful squirrels ever since you dropped us off. It's the craziest experience we've ever had." He regales you with a number of adventures the band has been on since they came to Hai space, and how they were all surprised that even in such an idyllic place war was still a reality. "Say, what brings you here?"
	He listens intently to your story of the scientists on <planet>, but his brow furrows when you mention the rumor of imprisonment by the Republic.
	"Maybe we've been away long enough. I thought there would be some rumors or recordings that made it back to the Republic from here, but this place is a pretty well-kept secret, so perhaps not. Maybe it's time to go back to the land of the humans."
	"Maybe we've been away long enough. With recent events, I suppose it's only a matter of time until our presence here becomes known more widely to the Republic anyway, so we don't exactly gain much by staying. Maybe it's time to go back to the land of the humans."
	Ulrich gathers up the rest of the band and they pack up their supplies. You chart a course for <destination> as they load their musical equipment on your ship and get ready for the long ride back to human space.
You arrive on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the band and their supplies has not arrived yet. Better depart and wait for your escorts to enter the system.
Almost as soon as "There Might Be Riots" steps off your ship, a crowd gathers. When it is clear that the band is not simply disembarking, but preparing to perform, the uproar makes you glad that you had not given any advance notification to the locals. As the band gets ready, you contact the spaceport authorities and have them notify Garrison and the other scientists that you have returned. The authorities don't seem too enthused about hosting a concert with no advance warning, but they agree to send your message.
	The crowd gets larger and larger over time, and judging by the increased number of ships landing, word has quickly spread that "There Might Be Riots" is back.
	As Ulrich and the band take the stage, you spot the scientists in the front row, grinning and cheering wildly. The first song is one you heard them play in Hai space, and even though none in the audience know the words to sing along, they appear to love the message, and the cheers and screams only grow more frenetic.
	During an intermission, you invite the scientists onto your ship to personally meet the band. The thrill in the eyes of each of the scientists is astounding as they meet the members of "There Might Be Riots."
	Before the intermission ends, each of the scientists thank you personally for bringing the band to Midgard, and Pierre even hands you <payment>. "It's the least we could give you," he adds. As the scientists start to depart your ship to listen to the rest of the concert, Hannah runs back to hug you before rejoining her friends in the crowd.
Mysterious Message
Travel to <destination> to meet the author of an encrypted message.
Upon landing, you receive an encrypted message from an unknown sender. "Hello, Captain <last>. Your recent assistance of the Deep is much appreciated. I'd like to speak with you on <destination> if you are interested." The message is not signed.
When you land on <origin> and open your ship's main hatch, you find yourself face-to-face with two Deep Security officers, neither of whom appear armed. "Hello, Captain <last>. We're going to need to ask you some questions. If you would please step off of your ship and follow us, that would be much appreciated."
	(Follow their orders.)
	"Why do you need to question me?"
	(Close the hatch and flee)
	"Because we wish to question you on the nature of your work for Albert Foster. Now please, step off your ship and come with us."
	(Close the hatch and flee.)
	You follow the officers to a building located on the eastern edge of the spaceport. You are led to a small, dimly lit room on the second floor that contains nothing but two chairs and a table. You are told to sit in one of the chairs and wait.
	You attempt to close the hatch, but a strong tingling sensation radiates from your abdomen. As you drop to the floor convulsing, you hold your eyes open long enough to glimpse a stun gun in one officer's hand.
	You wake up, slumped in a chair, in a dimly lit room. Across the table is another chair, empty. As you twist about, examining the rest of the room, the lingering soreness in your abdomen reminds you that even though you are alone for the moment, attempting to leave is likely unwise.
	(Wait.)
	Ten minutes pass in silence until a figure enters the room. In the dim light, you discern a tall, dark woman wearing what looks like a Deep Security uniform. Some of its badges, pins, and striping are unfamiliar to you.
	"I hope my men didn't have to struggle too much to get you here."
	"Don't worry, it was just fine."
	"It wasn't the warmest welcome I've ever received."
	The woman chuckles slightly. "No need to be sarcastic with me. Now, you know why you're here."
	"I do?"
	"I didn't commit any crimes, so you have no right to detain me."
	"Indeed, no crimes were committed during your work for Albert Foster, but we still have the right to detain you to keep the Deep safe. Cause us no trouble during this little meeting, answer my questions, and you will be on your way in a few minutes' time.
	"Well if you don't then let me jog your memory: You took a small chip of wood from a historical church on Midgard - nothing criminal, mind you - and returned it to Vinci, where I assume you handed it over to the 'archaeologist' Albert Foster." The tone of her voice as she says "archaeologist," clearly conveys her disdain for his title. "Later you returned to Midgard with Albert Foster in tow, prompting us to run you out of the Deep.
	"My first question to you: what exactly were you doing with Albert Foster?"
	"We were scanning Midgard with gravitational field mapping equipment and spotted an artificial singularity before we fled."
	"He told me he was researching the Deep and he needed help conducting his research."
	"And why do you think he needed someone else to do the work for him?"
	"Because he wanted something illegal done."
	"Because he isn't allowed in the Deep."
	"I already told you that you didn't commit a crime. The reason is that Foster has caused the Deep plenty of trouble in the past, so we don't particularly enjoy his presence. Now, did Albert make any discoveries due to your assistance?"
	"Precisely. Now, did Albert make any discoveries due to your assistance?"
	"He discovered that the church on Midgard is far older than should be possible, dating back to at least the early 1700s."
	"We spotted something on Midgard that he called an 'artificial singularity.'"
	"Interesting finding, Captain. Is there anything else that he discovered?"
	"Yes. We used gravitational mapping equipment on Midgard and we found what looked like an artificial singularity."
	The woman does not respond for a few seconds. When she does begin speaking, you have to lean in to hear her. "Don't lie to me. I can make this experience very uncomfortable for you."
	"Alright. We discovered an artificial singularity on Midgard."
	"See? That wasn't so hard to admit, now was it?"
	The woman's mouth turns into a sly smile as she leans back in her chair. "Thank you for the information. That is all we needed you for. You will be escorted back outside momentarily. Enjoy the rest of your day, <first> <last>."
	The woman's mouth turns into a sly smile as she leans back in her chair. "Thank you for the information, Captain. Before I let you go, I'd like to thank you for the work you've done for the Deep. I was interested to hear that the same Captain who helped us pursue Beelzebub also helped Albert Foster. Don't worry, we all make stupid mistakes. We'll scratch this one off your record.
	"You clearly mean no harm to the Deep, so I'll give you the privilege of asking me any questions you might have after this encounter."
You are escorted by two <planet> security guards to a Corvette occupying a landing pad close to the spaceport's Deep Security complex. Standing below the Corvette is the tall, dark-skinned woman who questioned you on your work for Albert Foster.
	"Good evening, Captain," she looks up to the overcast sky for a moment, "or whatever time of day it might be right now. I've been informed that you proved yourself a great asset to the Navy and Deep Security in tracking down and... almost trapping Beelzebub. Please, come inside my ship for a moment."
	"Why?"
	"You can leave if you wish to, but I'd only be keeping you for a moment."
	(Enter her ship.)
	The woman closes the Corvette's hatch, leaving you in the light of dim fluorescent bulbs. This must be quite an old ship to still be using fluorescent bulbs instead of the LED lights that most modern ships use for their interiors.
	"I've asked you onto my ship so that we may have some privacy. You clearly mean no harm to the Deep. For starters, I'm sure you'll be happy to hear that we've scratched your incident with Albert Foster from your record. Additionally, I'm extending you the privilege of asking me any questions you might have relating to our last encounter."
	"When was the Deep really settled?"
	"Is there really an artificial singularity on Midgard?"
	"I don't have any questions."
	"The exact date has been lost to time, but folklore states that the first humans arrived here in the mid-1300s, before the time of the 'Black Death' plague on ancient Earth. It's not wise to believe in wonder tales, though."
	"Were the original humans of the Deep really brought here by aliens?"
	"I don't have any more questions."
	"That's a question for the people who were originally brought here." The woman flashes another sly smile.
	"Those gravitational mapping devices can be so finicky sometimes. I'm sure it was nothing."
	"That will be enough questions for now. You will be escorted back outside momentarily. Enjoy the rest of your day, Captain."
	"That will be enough questions for now."
	"If that is all, then this meeting is over. You will be escorted back outside momentarily. Enjoy the rest of your day, Captain."
	"Very well."
	The woman gets up from her chair and stops in the doorway. She turns her head slightly and says in a low voice, "I'll be watching," then leaves. Moments later, the same two men that brought you here step into the room and ask you to follow them. They lead you to an entryway and lock the door as you step out into the spaceport.
	The woman opens the hatch to the ship. "We might meet again in the future. Stay on your best behavior and our next meeting will surely be on good terms. Goodbye, Captain."
Research Supplies
Fetch research supplies from <stopovers> and return them to <destination> by <date> for "Project Hawking."
While walking away from an argument with a local merchant over the price of a basket of fruit (ten credits is far too much for only a dozen pieces of fruit), you spy a group of four scientists moving about, briefly speaking with various captains.
	One of them sees you, and after a brief moment examining the tablet in his hand, leads the group toward you.
	"Hello, Captain," the tall man among the group says. "<first> <last>, is it?" You nod. "Splendid. I'm Garrison, and these are my colleagues Hannah, Pierre, and Laura. We're looking for a captain who would be able to give us a ride to a few planets in the Paradise sector where we will be acquiring supplies for our research. The Deep is currently short on spare transport ships, but did give us permission to hire trustworthy merchant captains so we don't miss our deadline. Would you be able to help?"
	"I'd be glad to help. Where do you need to go?"
	"Sorry, I'm too busy at the moment. You'll need to find a different captain."
	You recognize them as Garrison, Hannah, Pierre, and Laura, the scientists who asked you to find There Might Be Riots. "<first> <last>, is that you? What a great time to run into you!" Garrison exclaims. "We're looking for a captain who can give us a ride to a few planets in the Paradise sector while we pick up supplies for our research. We'd normally use an official transport from the Deep, but they're having some trouble sparing one at the moment. Instead, we received permission to hire a trustworthy merchant captain to act as our transport. Would you be able to help?"
	"Thank you, Captain. The planets that we need to go to are..." Garrison turns to the other three scientists. "<stopovers>," Hannah says.
	"... Thanks. After we've gathered all the supplies, we'll need to be dropped off on <destination>."
	You bring the scientists to your ship where they quickly make themselves comfy in the bunk rooms. As you walk to the bridge, you overhear Pierre quietly communicating with what you assume to be the spaceport authorities, "... <last> agreed. I expect Project Hawking to proceed on schedule. We will arrive before <day>." As you prepare for launch, you wonder what you've just signed up for.
You arrive on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the scientists and their supplies has not arrived yet. Better depart and wait for your escorts to enter the system.
"Don't go to the spaceport," Garrison says. "We'll be dropping the supplies off elsewhere." He directs you toward the mountains.
	As the peaks loom nearer, Garrison points to a set of four landing pads adjacent to a single building, the entire complex surrounded by trees. The nearest village is easily a few kilometers away.
	As the peaks loom nearer, Garrison points to a set of four landing pads adjacent to a single building, the entire complex surrounded by trees. It is very close to the church whose wood you sampled for Albert Foster, meaning that it is also very close to where his gravitational sensors supposedly identified an "artificial singularity."
	Several dozen forklifts are waiting for your ship on the surface, and your passengers busy themselves by supervising the unloading process. The high fencing around the landing pads prevents you from wandering, but you stretch your legs and enjoy the clear mountain air while you can.
	Your stroll around the launchpads is interrupted by the familiar warning tones emitted by landing spacecraft, and you look up to see a Deep Security Raven, descending rapidly. It lands next to the <ship>, and Lieutenant Paris steps out, looking rather distressed.
	"Captain! I'm going to need your ship's scanner logs from as far back as when you took this job."
	Hearing the urgency in his voice, you hastily return to your ship's cockpit, copy the scanner logs onto a data chip, and bring it to Paris. He views the logs on a tablet.
	"There appear to be three unidentified ships that began following you after each time you retrieved more cargo. Whether their intent is malicious or not, they are clearly interested in this project."
	"What are you going to do?"
	"Do you fear that we're in danger?"
	"I have no idea." Paris looks over to the crew that are unloading the cargo. "Hurry up, men!" One of them shouts back, "Only a few more crates left, Sir."
	Paris turns to you and says "I suggest you leave immediately," and then turns to the scientists, "and you four should come with me while we figure out what is happening here. Here may not be safe for you."
	In space, the noise from high-powered atomic engines can only be heard as a dull rumbling, and even then, only aboard the ship they propel. In atmosphere, however, they are deafening. The thunderclap of a high-speed atmospheric re-entry forces everyone to look up. A battle-scarred Quicksilver in pirate colors is racing toward the building. The workers scramble for cover, abandoning their machinery and the cargo.
	(Run for my ship.)
	(Run for the nearest cover.)
	You sprint toward your ship as fast as you can, but before you can reach it you hear the Quicksilver's cannons roar to life. The projectiles stream right overhead, exploding into the side of the building, sending rubble everywhere and knocking you off your feet.
	You duck for cover behind a concrete barrier that divides two landing pads when you hear the Quicksilver's cannons roar to life. The projectiles stream right overhead, exploding into the side of the building, sending rubble everywhere.
	As quickly as it appeared, the Quicksilver disappears, shrouded from view by the trees. Even though its engine noise has abated, Paris has to shout for his orders to be heard above the commotion. As you rise to your feet you feel the earth heave, and a few moments later the muffled thud of an explosion drowns out Paris' voice. A dark cloud of smoke is rising up from a half kilometer away, in the direction the Quicksilver flew. Even in daylight you can see light from the fires below, reflected ominously by the airborne soot. A second tremor, somehow larger than the first, catches everyone off guard, knocking you back to the ground.
	"Earthquake!"
	"What is happening?"
	No one is able to hear you over the low rumble of the shaking ground and the rustling of the forest around the complex. The building, already scarred and torn open by weapons fire, crumbles under the new stresses leaving only a pile of rubble. A minute after the tremor began, the vibrations stop, leaving the air silent; not even the rustle of the leaves or the tweet of a bird can be heard.
	Everyone is clearly startled by the experience as they slowly raise themselves from the ground. You spot Garrison helping up Pierre and Hannah. Lieutenant Paris and Laura are in a tight embrace, but quickly release each other when they notice you looking.
	A few Deep Security ships begin to land, dropping off medics and cleanup crews to take care of the destroyed building. One of the ships flies in the direction of the fire. Paris says to you, "Captain, I think you should leave. Deep Security will handle the situation here."
	You say goodbye to the scientists, who thank you for helping them, even if much of the cargo was destroyed. You board your ship and fly toward the spaceport. Upon landing, you find that <payment> have been transferred to your account from Deep Security.
The majority of Carbuncle Station is restricted to normal visitors. The workers here will not even refuel your ship upon request. It's clear that Lovelace Labs, the owners of this station, have secrets stored within the walls of this station.
	You open your docking doors, only to find the bulkhead doors to the rest of the station blocked by three well-armed security officers. You follow the scientists' lead and approach the guards. They spend several minutes conversing, but eventually a guard activates a toggle on his communicator. A video screen next to the bulkhead blinks on, revealing a woman in a uniform distinctly more embellished than those of the guards before you.
	"What brings you here to Carbuncle Station?"
	Pierre responds with only two words, "Project Hawking," and the screen momentarily goes blank. When it flickers on again, she is equally succinct and says only, "Admit three."
	After a short discussion, Garrison agrees to stay behind with you. Pierre, Hannah, and Laura are led through an awkwardly small opening in the bulkhead door, into the restricted area. Rather than wait in front of the guards, you return to the comfort of your ship with Garrison.
	"How should we pass the time while we wait?"
	"How long will it be before they come back?"
	"It shouldn't take long for them to come back, so we could have a short chat if you want."
	"At most ten minutes. In the meantime, we could have a short chat. I find dead air annoyingly awkward."
	"Do you know what Lovelace Labs keeps in this station?"
	"What is 'Project Hawking'?"
	"I haven't the faintest idea what they keep here. Even if I did, I'm sure I wouldn't be allowed to tell you. The only thing I know for sure they have here are components for the project we're working on."
	"Project Hawking?" you ask. Garrison nods.
	"The exact details of Project Hawking are classified. I'm not able to tell you much aside from the fact that we're doing energy and weapons research. Scientists from the Deep who are highly specialized in a certain field will be asked to work on government projects every so often.
	"In the field of energy engineering, I'm among the best that the Deep has to offer. I worked on the Dwarf Core." Garrison pauses and chuckles to himself before saying, "I also contributed toward the creation of those comically impractical LP576a Battery Packs that I have yet to see a single ship using.
	"Anyhow, because of my past work, the Deep approached me to work on this project. The pay was better than what I was getting before so I accepted it. It was a pleasant surprise to meet my partners as well. Hannah graduated in the same undergrad class as me, double majoring in quantum mechanics and ancient history, of all things."
	"What is it that you need from Carbuncle Station that is so secret?"
	"What about Pierre and Laura?"
	"Like I said already, the project is classified. It's not something I would understand, though. It's in Laura's field of expertise. You see, she has a PHD in--"
	"Pierre is an older guy, he's been working on laser weaponry for the better part of three decades now. Before this he was working on a separate project, but the Deep asked that he take time away from that to work on Project Hawking while they try to find a replacement for him, since the project needed someone with better knowledge in laser weaponry than the rest of us.
	"Pierre is an older guy. He has been working on laser weaponry for the better part of three decades now. If you've ever seen an electron beam in action, you have him to thank for that. And a few others, of course, but one of his findings is really what brought the whole project together.
	"Laura, on the other hand--"
	Before Garrison can finish speaking, the other three scientists return, helping each other carry a sealed metal box. "We're just going to set this in the back, if you don't mind," Pierre says. The scientists make themselves cozy in the bunk rooms and get ready to depart.
	A chirping from your ship's radio indicates you have received a message from the station. You open it and are not shocked at its contents:
		Your immediate departure is required.
					Carbuncle Station Docking Authority
	You signal to your crew and passengers that takeoff is imminent, and obey the wishes of the Lovelace Lab's research station.
As you approach the massive <planet> spaceport building, Pierre directs you to park on a landing pad on the third story close to the warehouse section. "We're picking up various materials used in the creation of ships that we need samples of for testing," Pierre explains.
	The scientists speak with the spaceport authorities, who begin loading several tons of alloys into your cargo from an overhead platform. You sit with Pierre as you wait for them to finish.
	"That's a lot of different alloys. What are they going to be used for?"
	"Why did we need to come all the way to Prime to get these materials?"
	Pierre cocks his head to the side as he looks at you. "We're going to destroy them. Short and simple. We need to see how different ship alloys hold up to the technology we're working on.
	"We could have gotten materials from a shipyard local to the Deep, but Betelgeuse Shipyards gets regular shipments of metals more commonly used by shipyards in the Dirt Belt, so it's really the closest place to get everything we need."
	"Do you enjoy the work you do for the Deep?"
	"How long have you been working for the Deep?"
	"Let me answer that question with a short story of my life." Pierre clears his throat and puffs up his chest a little, as if preparing himself to tell a great epic. He may enjoy talking about himself a little too much...
	"I was born on Windblain in the Regor system. It's a small, quiet world of little galactic importance, but you should give it a visit sometime. My family wasn't the most well off, so I needed to work hard in my studies, which paid off immensely. Thanks to my exceptional grades in university, I was offered a government job even before graduation. I've been working directly for the Deep for the past 35 years and counting, and I've loved every minute of it! My younger sister though... well, let's just say she wasn't so focused on being successful in school and ended up on the wrong side of the law.
	"How about you?"
	You tell Pierre about your life on New Boston, and how you saved up your money working at the textile mill from the age of fifteen until you were able to buy a pilot's license and finally leave your home world for the stars.
	"We aren't too different then," Pierre remarks. "We both worked hard to get where we are today. Thanks for sharing, <first>."
	"The cargo is all in, Captain!" Garrison yells down from the platform above. "We're ready when you are!"
"It might take a while to get a hold of the electronics we need," Pierre says after you land. "Just stick around the spaceport while we're gone."
	"You guys can handle it, right?" Hannah asks. "I haven't been to Vinci in years. I want to see the virtual reality activities they have in the spaceport arcade now."
	The other three scientists agree that they can make do without her, and she immediately runs off in the direction of the spaceport arcade. When you find her, she is busy playing a VR table tennis game against an AI hologram. By the look of things she is an amazing player, and the score is currently tied.
	"You're doing great! Do you play table tennis often?"
	"You can do it!"
	Hannah slams the virtual ball with her paddle, causing it to bounce off the table, fly right past her opponent, and disintegrate into thin air.
	"I did pretty good, didn't I? It's my first time playing table tennis, too."
	"How did you do that good for your first time?"
	"I'm just a quick learner. Always have been. In university I would do work for my history courses while sitting through lectures on quantum mechanics. Got straight A's in both classes without a problem."
	"That's a strange combination of classes."
	"What did you learn in ancient history?"
	"That's what everyone else told me, too. It was fun though, and a lot of what I learned in ancient history was just as interesting as what I learned in quantum mechanics."
	"What did you learn in ancient history?" you ask.
	"I could spend weeks on end talking about what I learned in those classes. The most interesting thing I learned has to be my ancestry. Most of my ancestors came from a place on Earth called Scandinavia, and my last name means 'garden' in an ancient language.
	"It's interesting to know where my ancestors lived over a thousand years ago when humanity was still stuck on Earth. It's amazing that the hyperdrive was invented when it was too, because we could have easily wiped ourselves out if we hadn't. Life still isn't perfect across the galaxy, but it's still far better on average than it was on Earth alone."
	Hannah looks like she is ready to endlessly blather on about Earth before the hyperdrive was invented, but you are saved by Laura. "We got the electronics we need loaded onto your ship, Captain. Garrison and Pierre are waiting for us there."
Fetching keystones
Buy 10 quantum keystones from Hai space and return them to <destination>, where Ivan and his team will research them and their link to the spatial anomaly in Terminus.
While wandering through the spaceport, you are approached by a man you instantly recognize as Ivan, the scientist whose drone you recovered data from in Terminus, thanks to his comically thick glasses. He mentions that he heard how helpful you have been to others within the Deep.
	"I was hoping you would continue assisting us in our research on the spatial anomaly in Terminus. Thanks to the data you retrieved, we have deduced that the anomaly is in fact some sort of wormhole, but it is far too unstable to support sending anything through it."
	Ivan looks around then leans in to whisper to you. "I must ask you, do you know of the Hai?" You nod. "Splendid!" He jumps up, nearly knocking his own glasses off his face. "Then you will be able to help. One of the scientists on my team grew up in their territory, and suggested that the so-called 'quantum keystones' which they sell might have something to do with the wormhole. He recalls hearing some Hai folktales of these stones making travel between the stars easier, and since the Hai once lived close to where the wormhole is, there may be a relation. Given that it would be immensely difficult to stabilize the wormhole with our current knowledge, it may be that these stones will make access into the wormhole easier. Would you kindly retrieve ten of them for us, so that we may be able to discover if these legends are true?"
	"I would be glad to help."
	"Sorry, but Hai space is too far for me."
	"Thank you again, Captain!" he says very enthusiastically. "I'd have traveled myself, but I must confess we are low on funds and will not receive more unless we make some sort of discovery. We will be able to pay for half the cost of the stones once you return."
	"I already know what is on the other side of the wormhole. In fact, installing a single quantum keystone is enough to enter into the spatial anomaly."
	"Sorry, but Hai space is too far for me right now."
	Ivan looks like he is about to fall over with joy after you mention having entered the wormhole. "Really? Please, tell me what you found!"
	You tell Ivan all that you saw on the other side of the wormhole, and how you found strange-looking humans who communicate in song and sign language that attacked you after you wouldn't submit to a blood test. You also mention the other oddities of the region of space, including the strange alien creatures in Nenia that are able to survive in the vacuum of space, as well as the large number of wormholes that allow traversal throughout the region.
	(Reveal the existence of the Remnant.)
	(Don't reveal the existence of the Remnant.)
	You tell Ivan about how the region of space beyond the wormhole is known as the "Ember Waste" and that it is inhabited by a group of friendly humans who fled there during the Alpha Wars. These humans have advanced independently from the rest of humanity for centuries. You mention their strange culture, sharing what you can remember about the songs the Remnant people sang.
	You also mention the other oddities of the Ember Waste, including the strange alien creatures in Nenia that are able to survive in the vacuum of space, as well as the large number of wormholes that allow traversal throughout the region.
	You tell Ivan about the region of space beyond the wormhole and its vast loneliness. You describe the ever-present red glow, similar to the color of the wormhole. You also mention the strange alien creatures in Nenia that are able to survive in the vacuum of space, as well as the large number of wormholes that allow traversal throughout the region.
	"This is very interesting, and would turn out to be an amazing discovery if true. Please, bring us the quantum keystones so that we might try to understand the properties which allow entry into the wormhole's threshold. Later we will learn more about this region that you describe. Oh, before I forget: we can pay you for half of the cost of the keystones."
	"Sorry, I don't want to help with this."
You do not have the 10 quantum keystones that Ivan asked you to purchase in Hai space. You should return here after obtaining them.
Upon returning to <planet>, you learn that Ivan has left for his research lab on Valhalla, but his research assistant, Rayna, is waiting to retrieve the keystones. She hands you <payment>, enough to pay for half of the cost of the stones.
Upon returning to <planet>, you learn that Ivan has left for his research lab on Valhalla, but instead you find that Rayna is waiting to retrieve the keystones. She hands you <payment>, enough to pay for half of the cost of the stones.
	"Thank you for buying these keystones for us. It may take us a month or two to fully study them. We'll contact you when we're in need of your assistance again."
Meet up with Ivan on <destination> to learn about his research on the quantum keystones you brought him.
You receive a message from Ivan, the scientist working on the spatial anomaly in Terminus. "Captain, we have finished studying the quantum keystones, and they do in fact allow access through the wormhole. Please meet with me on <destination> if you wish to continue helping us with our research."
Exploring the Unknown
Explore the region of space beyond the Terminus wormhole. Return to <destination> after exploring everything you can reach.
This region of space appears to be inhabited. You should attempt to find out more about the beings living here.
This system is full of strange, space-dwelling creatures that appear to be eating asteroids. The sight of their mouthparts chewing rock into dust is sure to be a recurring nightmare for any captain who visits this system. You make a note to avoid flying too close, in case they mistake your ship for their next meal.
	With these strange creatures so close to the wormhole, one can only wonder what lies deeper in this region of space.
You have landed on <planet>, but you have not explored enough of the space beyond the wormhole. Return to the wormhole and continue exploring the region for anything of interest.
Analyze Wormholes
Ivan and his team are interested in studying the wormholes beyond the one in Terminus. Return to the strange region of space and travel through the wormholes that create a loop while carrying the scanning equipment.
You've returned to <planet>, but Ivan informs you that you'll need <capacity> available for this next mission. Return when you have the available space.
You've returned to <planet>, but you haven't traveled through all the wormholes yet. Return to the strange region of space and travel through the loop of wormholes.
You contact Ivan after you land and he sends you directions to his research lab, located on the outskirts of the city. "Quite the distance from my office, but we work with what we have," he comments. When you arrive, you hardly have time to greet Ivan, Rayna, and the others before Ivan begins discussing what they have learned from the quantum keystones.
	"As you mentioned before, a single keystone is sufficient to enter the wormhole," Ivan says. "We've determined that there is a stabilization effect, either on the ship or the wormhole, that allows matter to cross the threshold. However, we'll need much more time and data to fully understand the true mechanism.
	"Last time, you mentioned that there were alien creatures able to survive the vacuum of space, correct?"
	You nod.
	"Right. Well, it would be extremely interesting if we were to learn more about these alien creatures.
	"Last time, you mentioned that there were humans living in this space, the... the 'Remainder?'"
	"Remnant," you say.
	"Right, that was it. Well, it would be extremely interesting if we were to learn more about this people.
	"We've analyzed the keystones, and surprisingly they do allow entry into the wormhole in Terminus," Ivan explains. "It would appear that the stones stabilize the wormhole as the ship passes through it, or maybe it is stabilizing the ship in some way and not the wormhole. We'll need much more time to fully understand the true mechanism that is at play here. Whatever the case is, one stone is required for each ship to pass through the wormhole.
	"We sent a single drone through the wormhole to test that it was passable, and programmed it to return immediately in case the region beyond is hostile or dangerous. Would you be willing to explore the region for us? You may want to install a ramscoop, as we are unsure if there will be anywhere for your ship to refuel."
	"Actually, I already explored the region beyond the wormhole while you were researching."
	"Sorry, I don't want to work for you anymore."
When you return, Ivan and the rest of the scientists wait eagerly for you to explain what you discovered.
	You begin by recounting your experience with the strange space-dwelling creatures you found in the Nenia system. Ivan's eyes go wide when you mention the ease with which they fed on asteroids, and how they seemed to effortlessly escape from the gravity of local gas giants. You also mention that there are more strange wormholes like the one that you passed through to enter the region of space, including a series of wormholes that create a loop between multiple systems.
	You then tell them about the strange-looking humans who communicate in song and sign language that attacked you after you wouldn't submit to a blood test.
	You then tell them about the Remnant, a group of friendly humans who fled human space during the Alpha Wars and have advanced independently of humanity for centuries, and how they call the region of space the "Ember Waste."
	The group of scientists looks captivated the entire time, almost like kindergarten children listening to a fairy tale. When you finish talking, they immediately chatter among themselves, seeming to be most interested in the alien creatures which inhabit the region. They seem to agree that they need to learn more about these aliens.
	"We can seek to learn more about these alien creatures later," Ivan says.
	The group of scientists looks captivated the entire time, almost like kindergarten children listening to a fairy tale. When you finish talking, they immediately chatter among themselves, seeming to be most interested in the human beings which inhabit the region. They seem to agree that they need to learn more about these humans, and more specifically about the technology which they have developed.
	"We can seek to learn more about this group of humans later," Ivan says.
	"But, first and foremost, we should continue our work on understanding these wormholes. You mentioned a strange series of wormholes. Their behavior is definitely noteworthy. Could you return to this region of space while carrying a suite of astronomic instruments? If you travel through these wormholes, we may learn more about what makes them tick."
	"Okay, I'm willing to do it."
	"Sorry, but I didn't agree to help you beyond that first job. Goodbye."
	"Wonderful! We'll get the instruments loaded onto your ship immediately."
	"I'm always willing to go on an adventure."
	"This sounds too risky. You're going to need to find someone else to go exploring."
	"Splendid! We will give you a single quantum keystone in order to travel through the wormhole. Return here once you have finished exploring."
Analyze Alien Creatures
Scan the "outfits" of the alien creatures in Nenia, then return to the scientists on <destination> with the detailed scanner logs.
You have finished scanning the alien creatures in the system. You may now return to <destination> with the scanner logs.
You show your scanner logs to Ivan, but he shakes his head. "This isn't enough. There should be more creatures for you to scan in <waypoints>. Make sure you're using an outfit scanner as well."
The team is visibly excited when you return with the scanner logs. "Give us a few weeks to look these over," Ivan says. "Then we will contact you about what we want you to do next."
Analyze Remnant Ships
Scan the outfits of the Remnant ships in Arculus, then return to the scientists on <destination> with the detailed scanner logs.
You have finished scanning the Remnant ships in the system, and they don't seem to have taken too kindly to that. You may now return to <destination> with the scanner logs.
You show your scanner logs to Ivan, but he shakes his head. "This isn't enough. There should be more ships for you to scan in <waypoints>. Make sure you're using an outfit scanner as well."
The team is visibly excited when you return with the scanner logs, but become more somber when you mention that the ships became hostile when you scanned them. "Give us a few weeks to look these over," Ivan says. "Then we will contact you about what we want you to do next. By then, should we return, hopefully those ships won't be too upset anymore."
The team of scientists is already waiting in the spaceport when you arrive. They remove the equipment from your ship and immediately begin analyzing the results after returning to the lab.
	"At first glance, this series of wormholes seems no different than the one that is used to enter this region of space, but it will require some time for us to go over all the data the sensors collected," Ivan explains to you.
	"While you wait, though, I have another job you could do. You mentioned something about strange alien creatures beyond the wormhole that seemed to be able to survive in the vacuum of space. Would you be able to return there and scan them for us? These alien creatures won't have 'outfits' for the scanners to pick up, but a typical outfits scanner is still likely to give us the most information."
	"While you wait, though, I have another job you could do. You mentioned something about a group of humans, or at least human-like beings, beyond the wormhole. Would you be able to return there and scan their ships for us? I'd be interested in seeing what an outfits scanner returns. You need not contact them, simply find a couple of ships and scan them so that we might learn more about their capabilities."
	"Sounds like a good plan. I'll be back as soon as I can."
	"Sorry, but I'm not comfortable with this idea. You'll need to find someone else."
You receive a message from Ivan after you land. "Thanks for all your help recently. We brought our findings to the Deep government, but given their sensitive nature the Deep is taking its time deciding whether to fund further research. In the meantime, I've transferred <payment> of my own funds to your account. I have no doubt the Deep will approve further funding for our project in the future, so I've simply written this off as a business expense. I'll contact you once we continue our research beyond the wormhole. Thanks again!"
Meet up with Ivan on <destination> to continue helping with research on the Ember Waste.
You receive a message from Ivan, the Deep scientist who you helped to discover the Remnant in the Ember Waste. "Captain <last>, it's been so long. The Deep has finally finished reviewing our research in the Ember Waste, and we've been approved for further funding! Please meet us on <destination> if you wish to assist us again. Your help would be appreciated, but we will make progress even if you're unable to help."
	(Accept.)
	(Decline.)
Fetching Engines
Acquire "Forge-Class" thruster and steering engines from the Remnant and bring them to <destination>.
Thanks to the new funding grants from the Deep, the team has moved their research lab into a more advanced facility closer to the spaceport. "This new location will make transferring cargo from your ship to the lab much easier, something we expect to do a lot of in the next few months. It's also much closer to my office, which will make life much easier," Ivan adds. "A careful study of the outfit scans you collected has indicated that the Remnant technology uses unprecedented advancements and improvements that haven't been seen in any human technology before.
	"Even though the Remnant have attacked you, we are very interested in what additional secrets their technology may hold. Are you willing to steal some of their technology and bring it to us for analysis?"
	"Is this really necessary?"
	"I'd be more than happy to help."
	"Sorry, but I'm not interested in working for you anymore."
	"If they aren't willing to be friendly and simply sell you their technology then I'm afraid that this is the only way that we can obtain it. You don't have to destroy their ships if you don't want to, we simply need you to disable a few and take some of their outfits."
	"Alright, I'll do it."
	"Sorry, but I'm not going to attack human beings for the sake of science."
	"You told us that these humans were friendly... well, until you scanned their ships, that is. Do they allow you to purchase their technology?"
	"No," you respond. "They haven't given me a license to buy any of their outfits or ships."
	The scientists ponder this for a moment. Eventually, Rayna speaks up. "Maybe if you assist them in some way they may welcome you into their society. I can imagine that they are a little wary after all those years on their own. Try doing jobs for them or see if anyone in their spaceports needs something from you."
	"You could also plunder their technology if they won't sell it to you," Ivan chimes in. "Without killing them, of course," he adds.
	"I'll see if I can try to get my hands on what you need."
	"Sorry, but I'm not interested in doing that kind of work for you."
	"Yes," you respond. "I had to do a few odd jobs for them, but they eventually allowed me to purchase their outfits and ships."
	"Then all you need to do is buy whatever we ask you to and bring it back here. Are you interested?"
	"I'd be glad to help."
	"Sorry, but I don't want to spend money for your research."
	"Great!" Ivan exclaims. "Right now we'd be interested in studying their engines. Please bring us one Forge-Class Thruster and one Forge-Class Steering. They shouldn't be too hard to get."
You have landed on <planet>, but you do not have both a Forge-Class Thruster and Forge-Class Steering. Return to <planet> once you have obtained both engines.
Fetching a Generator
Acquire a Millennium Cell generator from the Remnant and bring it to <destination>.
An unloading crew quickly removes the engines from your ship and transports them to Ivan's research lab. You are escorted into a lobby where one of the administrative staff pays you <payment> in exchange for the engines. He asks you to wait, indicating that Ivan or one of the other scientists should be out to meet you shortly. After about three hours of waiting, Ivan enters the room.
	"These engines, they are fantastic! The scans made them seem similar to human ion engines, but surprisingly they can outperform even atomic engines! The thrust-to-mass ratio is great, and they have somehow avoided the immense heat generation that our engines emit. They do have some downsides, but it's still amazing that such an isolated group of humans could make technological leaps beyond even what the Deep has accomplished.
	"We've decided that the next Remnant technology we'd like to examine is their power generation. Could you bring us one of their Millennium Cells?"
	"Sure. I'll be back in no time at all."
	"Sorry, but I'm no longer interested in working for you."
You have landed on <planet>, but you do not have a Millennium Cell. Return to <planet> once you have obtained the generator.
Fetching a Cannon
Acquire an Inhibitor Cannon from the Remnant and bring the weapon to <destination>.
Again, the Remnant technology is removed from your ship and transported to the research lab. You wander into the waiting area and are paid <payment>. After several hours, the scientists come to you with their initial findings.
	"This Millennium Cell is little more than a radiothermal generator. Not exactly the best kind of generator if you're looking for lots of power - our Fusion Reactors are far better at that - but for a radiothermal generator, it produces remarkably little heat. We'll have to take it apart to find out how they are manipulating the decay heat so effectively, but preparing for that will take some time.
	"I suppose by now you've seen the Remnant ships in combat more than a few times. The outfit scans showed one of their primary weapons is a modified Particle Cannon, but we'd need to see the actual weapon in order to understand how the modification works. Would you retrieve an Inhibitor Cannon for us?"
	"I'd be glad to."
You have landed on <planet>, but you do not have an Inhibitor Cannon. Return to <planet> once you have the weapon.
Remnant Surveillance
Land on each of the Remnant worlds (<stopovers>) and place a number of sensor cubes. Then return to <destination> once you are done.
Instead of sending the Inhibitor Cannon to Ivan's lab, the unloading crew transfers it to a waiting Deep Security ship, which immediately departs when its cargo bay doors close. Unlike the previous crews that met you upon landing, they are all in military garb. When you meet Ivan at his lab, he explains that the Deep was especially interested in the Remnant technology after reading his previous reports, and that his team would need to study it in a "more secure location."
reputation: Remnant
	Ivan hands you <payment>. "Thank you for all the help, Captain <last>. You've done a lot for humanity in these past few months. It may take us years to fully understand the technology you have brought us, but rest assured that once we do understand it, the galaxy will be a better place. I'll see you later, Captain. Stay safe."
	Ivan hands you <payment>. "Thank you for all the help, Captain <last>, but I have one last thing to ask." Ivan reaches into his pocket and retrieves six objects that you recognize as sensor cubes. "Would you bring two of these to each of the Remnant worlds? We've been learning a great deal from the study of the Remnant outfits, but aside from your scanning logs we have very little information on the Remnant ships. If you were to place these near their spaceports, they would be able to scan any nearby ships, which would be most helpful."
	"You can count on me, Ivan."
	"Sorry, but this doesn't seem like the right thing to do. You'll need to find someone else to do this for you."
	"Thank you, Captain. Return here once you have finished, and I'll ensure you are well compensated for the journey."
You have landed on <planet>, but you have not placed two cubes on all the Remnant worlds. Return to the Ember Waste and make sure you have placed surveillance devices on <stopovers>.
When you return to <planet>, you are unable to find Ivan. Instead, Rayna waves you down and hands you a credits chip worth <payment>.
	"Ivan told me to give this to you, Captain. Thanks again for helping us out so much. We couldn't have done it without you."
You try to make an effort to not be seen as you decide where to place the cubes. You place one outside of the spaceport dome, burying it in the snow so it is difficult to find. The other you tuck into a dark corner of the spaceport, and as soon as you let it go it blends in surprisingly well with its surroundings.
You place the first of the cubes at the entrance of a now-abandoned underground settlement, in a dark area where it will not be seen. Unable to find a good spot for the second, you decide to leave it in a ditch and cover it in sand. Although you are unable to see anyone, you feel that you are being watched. As the only non-Remnant you are not exactly inconspicuous, but no one approaches you as you return to your ship.
As you walk through the oldest part of the town, you spot an alleyway that has plenty of nooks in which a cube can be concealed. You decide to place the other one far outside of town, near the top of the valley where the spaceport can still be seen.
Locate Missing Scientists
A Star Queen transporting prominent Deep scientists has gone missing. It was last seen near the Betelgeuse system in the Far North. Find its whereabouts and return it to <destination> if possible.
While watching a local sports game on the telescreen of a spaceport restaurant called "The <origin> Sif," your name is called from the entrance. You turn your head and spot Lieutenant Paris waving at you to come outside. You pay for your meal and walk outside.
	"Hello Captain. Do you have a moment to talk?"
	"I do. What do you need?"
	"This isn't a situation that can wait, Captain. You are needed immediately."
	"I can't help you. You're going to need to find someone else."
	"A number of scientists have been kidnapped during a venture to the Far North. Their intent was to research the Wolf-Rayet star in the Gorvi system. Due to this system's proximity to the anarchist worlds, very little research has been conducted on it. Pierre, Hannah, and... and Laura were all aboard the Star Queen which contained the scientists. Since you know them I only thought it fair that you should know about the situation.
	"It was yesterday that we were informed of the kidnapping. The Star Queen and its escorts were preparing to refuel on Prime in the Betelgeuse system when a large pirate fleet entered the system. The Star Queen's escorts were swiftly destroyed, and she was captured. We lost all communications with the vessel after that. Would you be willing to help us locate the Star Queen while we prepare a rescue force?"
	"I would be glad to help. I'll prepare my ship immediately."
	"Why can't you locate it yourself?"
	"Given the importance of the scientists aboard the Star Queen, we took great care in providing them with some of the strongest warships we had. The loss of these ships and their crew is a major blow to Deep Security's combat capabilities. We are recoiling from the impact of this loss while we assemble a proper rescue fleet and are unable to spare any ships for a scout fleet at this moment.
	"In a situation like this, every minute matters, and if someone like you can find the Star Queen quickly then that means that there is a higher chance everyone can come out of this alive."
	"Okay, I'm willing to help."
	"Sorry, but this doesn't sound worth it to me."
As you enter Arneb, your scanners pick up the Star Queen landing on Haven. Unfortunately, there are also a large number of pirate vessels headed in your direction. You should report back to Paris on <destination> for further instruction.
You have landed on Valhalla, but you have not located the Star Queen! Find it somewhere in the Far North.
The Star Queen is not in this system, so you attempt to find somebody who may have some information. After visiting several shops, you find a merchant who was clearing cargo through customs as the Star Queen departed. According to her, a large pirate fleet jumped in, eviscerated the escorts with weapons she had never seen before, and escaped north towards Rigel with the hostage Star Queen. You can only hope the trail is not already cold.
After speaking with a Navy officer for a few minutes, you find out that the Star Queen came through here over a week ago, escorted by several large pirate ships. The Navy did not want to risk the lives of those on the ship by engaging the pirate fleet, so they let it continue north.
	You spot preparations for a rescue mission, but upon inquiring, learn that the recent destruction of a number of Navy capital ships in the days preceding the Star Queen's abduction resulted in an order to wait for additional reinforcements before any Navy ships are allowed to leave station.
	The Navy officer ends by hinting that the Star Queen is likely to be in Alnilam or Arneb, as those systems are the farthest from anyone looking to find or rescue the ship.
You spend a few hours scanning the surface of the planet in an attempt to find the Star Queen, but nothing comes up. It will likely require military-grade scanners in order to find the ship, which the Deep Security rescue fleet will undoubtedly have.
Secure the Scientists
Escort the <npc> to <destination> to retrieve the Star Queen. Escorts will be waiting for you on Memory in the Zosma system and Farpoint in the Alnitak system.
Paris is a high ranking guard in Deep Security, equivalent to an admiral in the Republic Navy. While most of Deep Security is designed to keep the Deep safe internally and repel any pirates that might try to make their way into the region, Paris is in charge of Deep Security's external affairs, defending the Deep's interests outside its own borders.
You return to Valhalla and find Lieutenant Paris with a large group of men and women in Deep Security uniforms. As you approach them, the Lieutenant stops speaking to the group after noticing you. "Captain <last>! Have you located the Star Queen?"
	"Yes, it is located on <destination>, but is heavily defended."
	You mention the multiple heavy warships that you saw in the system, and the fact that there are likely many more waiting on Haven.
	You mention the multiple heavy warships that you saw in the system, and the fact that there are likely many more waiting on Haven. You also relay the merchant's claim that the pirates were using weapons she had never seen before.
	After hearing this news, many of the faces in the group turn grim as they realize that they will need to fight to retrieve the Star Queen. Paris ponders this information for a moment, then turns back to the group. "Guards, ready your ships!" The group responds with a collective "Sir, yes sir!" before running off to their ships.
	Before leaving for his own ship, he walks up to you and hands you <payment>.
	"Thank you for locating the Star Queen. Now, Captain <last>, would you be willing to help us? If the Star Queen is as heavily defended as you say it is, we are going to need every ship we can get."
	"I would rather let the professionals handle things. Good luck."
	"Thank you so much. The plan is to rendezvous with a number of warships on Memory and then head to Alnitak. My superiors received word from the admiral on Farpoint that there are a number of Navy ships at the ready to avenge their fallen comrades, so I expect we'll pick up some help there when we refuel. After the fleet is mustered, we go to Arneb." He smiles tensely, adding, "Just make sure that the <npc> makes it onto the planet. She'll be carrying the landing crew, along with myself."
	The communications device on his belt rings, and he quickly responds, giving orders to the fleet that will be joining you on the mission. Before you can return to your ship, he says, "Good luck, Captain, and may we all make it out of this alive. We'll meet you in orbit."
You have landed on Haven, but you left the <npc> behind! Wait for the <npc> to enter the system before landing.
Deep Security escorts on <planet>
Lieutenant Paris mentioned an escort squadron of Deep Security ships was preparing to join you on your mission. Meet up with them on <destination>, if you want to.
As you land, you notice a group of Deep Security warships - three Aeries and their fighter squadrons - loading munitions just outside of the spaceport. Before you can make it into the spaceport, one of the pilots waves you over for a brief conversation: aside from a few trivial items left on their preflight checklist, the warships are ready to launch and join in on the rescue mission.
Republic Navy escorts on <planet>
Lieutenant Paris mentioned that some Navy officers were interested in avenging the loss of their comrades. Meet up with them on <destination>, if you want to.
While refueling at the Farpoint naval base, you are approached by two Navy officers who recognize you as Captain <last>. They tell you that Lieutenant Paris contacted them a few days ago, indicating that the rescue fleet was en route and would be reaching the Alnitak system shortly. They inform you that they have requisitioned two Cruisers to assist in the Star Queen's retrieval, and depart for their ships.
Now that you have secured the Star Queen, escort it safely to <destination>.
The remaining fleet quickly enters the atmosphere of Haven and begins scanning the surface. After roughly an hour of flying, you receive a transmission that the Star Queen has been found, along with its coordinates.
	You watch from afar as the Mule lands outside a hangar in some sort of pirate facility. The Mule immediately unloads what looks to be at least four dozen armed soldiers who quickly surround and breach the hangar. "Lieutenant, they have alien technology in here," one of the soldiers says over the radio. "Some of it is from the Hai, but some of it I've never seen before."
	"Plant explosives on any alien technology you find. We don't have the capabilities to take it all back with us. It's better off destroyed."
	After fifteen minutes, the hangar doors slide open to reveal the Star Queen, still intact. You hear chatter over the radio saying that most of the crew and scientists are still inside.
	"Good job, everyone," you hear Lieutenant Paris say over the comms. "Now we just need to make it back to <destination> in one piece." Just as he says that, a bright light pierces the sky, obliterating the Mule while its shields are down. Soldiers begin scrambling into the Star Queen, which quickly takes off into space along with the rest of the fleet. You turn your repulsor engines to full and begin flying up into space behind them as multiple explosions come from the facility behind you.
As your engines roar, you notice a large pirate ship looming over the planet. Even from the underside, it is undeniably a Bactrian, but how a pirate could ever attain one is a mystery.
	You receive a transmission from Lieutenant Paris. "I have a sneaking suspicion that Beelzebub may be behind this. I suggest we jump out of here immediately and make it back to the Deep alive before taking on that Bactrian."
You have landed on Valhalla, but you left the <npc> behind! Wait for it to enter the system before landing.
After the Bactrian is eliminated, you receive a transmission from an unknown source. It suddenly opens on its own and an electronically distorted voice begins speaking to you.
	"Well done, Captain. Well done at being a thorn in my side. You will pay for this. One day."
The transmission cuts out as abruptly as it had started.
Take down the Devil
You have returned the scientists, but the pirates still have a Bactrian. Eliminate it and return to <destination>.
As you land near the Star Queen, you can see its passengers being escorted off. Hannah comes running off the ship in tears over to Garrison, who must have arrived as soon as he heard the news. A medical team is examining each passenger while a Deep Security officer asks questions and jots down the responses. Sadly, you also notice a number of body bags next to the ship, likely from scientists or crew that were found dead on the ship.
	Lieutenant Paris is waiting for you outside of your ship, and hands you another <payment> when you walk up to him. "Thanks for all the help, Captain <last>. We couldn't have done it without you."
	Paris looks back to the Star Queen, and you can overhear one of the Deep Security officers listing off names. "Sarah Reevs, Nicole Faye, Pierre Joules, Laura Paris..." the list goes on for slightly over a dozen total names. "The surviving crew tells us that only a few were killed initially, either during boarding or by being thrown out the airlock on the way to Haven. Most of the others were either killed or dragged off after they had reached their destination at a facility of some sort, its purpose unidentifiable to the crew."
	When you look back to Lieutenant Paris, you notice that he is holding back tears. Laura Paris was one of the scientists who died.
	He talks to you in a rather strained voice. "I want you to return to Arneb and take out every single one of those pirates that are left. Especially the Bactrian. We try to keep Bactrians out of unworthy hands, so whenever a pirate gets one we make sure we destroy it immediately. Seeing as how we're going to be busy here for a while, you need to be the one who destroys it."
	"I'll make sure it gets done, Lieutenant."
	"I'm sorry, but I don't have the power to defeat that Bactrian. You're going to need to do it yourself."
	"I see... Good luck on your travels, Captain <last>." Lieutenant Paris starts walking over to the Star Queen, leaving you alone next to your ship.
	"Thank you, <first>." Lieutenant Paris starts walking over to the Star Queen, leaving you alone next to your ship.
You landed on Valhalla, but you didn't kill the Bactrian! Return to Arneb and make sure that the Bactrian is destroyed and forever out of pirate hands.
Deep Security suspect that Beelzebub was behind the kidnapping of a Star Queen full of Deep scientists. In the attempt to rescue the scientists, a pirate owned Bactrian known as the "Cosmic Devil" was destroyed, although it would appear that either Beelzebub was not on the ship, or escaped the ship before it was destroyed.
When you return to Valhalla, the Star Queen is no longer on the landing pad and the spaceport seems to be running normally. Shortly after landing, you find Lieutenant Paris at the same restaurant in which he first found you. Before saying a word to you, he hands you a license.
	"Thank you. I've said it before, but there's really no way I can thank you enough."
	You look down at the license that Paris just handed you and notice that it's a city-ship license, one that will allow you to purchase the Bactrian. "I think it's only fair that you be able to purchase one after having to fight one to the death, and the government of the Deep agrees. It's really the least I... we could do for you."
	"Thank you so much! I'll make sure that this gets put to good use."
	"Really? You shouldn't have."
	"It's yours to keep. I hope you have good luck with your travels, and have fun using the Bactrian. It's a mighty fine ship to fly." Lieutenant Paris pays his bill and leaves, as you ponder the possibilities that await.
	He turns to you and hands you a license, then says in a rather strained voice. "Thank you. I've said it before, but there's really no way I can thank you enough."
	"It's yours to keep. I hope you have good luck with your travels, and have fun using the Bactrian. It's a mighty fine ship to fly." Lieutenant Paris starts walking over to the Star Queen, leaving you alone to ponder the possibilities that await.
Stone of our Fathers
Travel to <destination>, and drop Skaldgar off at the home he abandoned long ago.
Helheim's spaceport has all the constant hustle and bustle of a boomtown. It's dirty, lively, and packed with workers. As you walk through the spaceport, an aged man in a worn and weathered roustabout jacket waves his arm toward you and approaches you.
	"You've got the look of one who knows a ship inside and out," he says. "Name's Skaldgar, ain't much for ships; earth, soil, and rock are my domain. But I do got a need to travel." He pauses as a wistful look briefly passes over his face. "I left, you see, decades ago. No goodbye. No note. Just... left. Living with others, taking care of others, hard on a man like me. I like solitude, peace, and work. But now my bones are brittle: the radiation, earth-rot as we call it, has taken hold and my time is running out. And I find, I don't want to be alone anymore."
	He stops and frowns. "Look at me, rambling like an ol' man. Ser, Captain, I'd like to pay you <payment> to take me home, to <destination>."
	"If you have coin, I have room."
	"I guess I can take a small detour."
	(Shake my head. I have better things to do than bus old men around.)
	He nods, grunts, and heads to your ship with a small knapsack cradled under his arm, clearly ready to travel to <planet> at a moment's notice.
	With a disappointed look on his face, he nods once and slides back into the endless sea of people.
You have reached <planet>, but your escort carrying Skaldgar has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Skaldgar is as clean as you've seen him: scrubbed, shaved and wearing clothes that are respectable, if a few decades out of style. His eyes glisten, and he turns to you.
	"I've made a lot of mistakes in my life. Comin' home, even if I'm hated - or worse, forgotten - ain't one of them. Thank ya kindly for the passage."
	You wish the old codger a joyful homecoming, and watch as he disappears into the sleepy spaceport.
Return Skaldgar to <destination>.
In the nearly abandoned spaceport of Norn, a scruffy and slow-moving figure shuffles toward you. "Captain <first>! Good to see you, friend. It's Skaldgar; ya gave me a ride here some time ago," he calls out as he approaches you.
	"Got a nephew who works at the port, let me know he saw you comin' in." He claps you on the back. "Things have been mostly good, hard though, the family - some are glad to see me, to remember me, and others..." he pauses. "Well, some mistakes you just can't take back."
	He looks away briefly, and then nods at his packed bag. "It was good to come back here one last time. But the soil, the work calls to me. I'm only good at one thing in this world, and I intend to do it to the very end. So, I was wonderin', could ya take me back to <planet>?"
	(Nod. Skaldgar and his hard-earned money are more than welcome aboard my ship.)
	"No thanks. I have better things to do than bus old men around."
	Skaldgar glares at you briefly then shrugs. "S'pose you do. S'pose you do." He turns and wanders away.
	Skaldgar rewards you with a genuine, if uneven, smile and then picks up his pack to board your ship.
You have reached <planet>, but your escort with Skaldgar has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Helheim's hustle and bustle threatens to overwhelm the senses, yet Skaldgar, for all his age and illness, seems to have a skip in his step as he saunters out of your ship and into the teeming masses.
	Just as he is about to be swept up in the current of humanity, Skaldgar turns and gives you one last wave, and then is gone.
Take Skaldgar's stone back to his family on <destination>.
As always, Helheim is packed to the brim with transient workers coming and going, with dreams of either getting rich or getting out. A youngish looking man in a dirty roustabout jacket waves at you and approaches.
	"Yer that Cap'n that Skaldgar always went on about, aren'tcha?" The young man attempts to imitate Skaldgar with a deep and ponderous voice, "Him that knows the currents of space like we know our stone, and the like." The man grins sheepishly, " Ol' Skaldgar always had a way with words, he did."
	The young man then looks down, somberly, and pulls from his pocket a small, well-worn stone with some strange markings on it and holds it out to you.
	"He wanted," he begins haltingly, "he wanted you, only you, to take this back to his folk on Norn." He swallows. "It's the old ways, it is. This, it needs to be returned, and not by a stranger." The young man then shrugs. "Best to let'cha know, I ain't have no money to pay you. This would be a favor for the ol' man."
	(Reach out and accept the stone.)
	"Nope. Not going to do it. I run a ship, not a charity."
	The young man nods knowingly. "Guess Skaldgar was wrong about you, but I understand. We all gotta eat." He turns and slides back into the endless crowd.
	You're surprised at how cool the smooth stone feels in your palm.
	He smiles sadly. "Skaldgar always had a nose for good folks. Anyways, he told me he had a nephew named Helm who worked at the Norn spaceport. Find 'im and he can get'cha and this stone where it needs to go." The young man than looks you in the eye and gives a slow respectful nod, "For Ol' Skaldgar, may he be findin' ore in hel."
	And with that, the man disappears into the crowd.
It turns out there is no need to search for Helm, as he is waiting for you when you land.
	"I figured for you to be returning, it would either be with Skaldgar or with" - he pauses - "news." He looks around. "And I don't see Skaldgar."
	You show him the odd stone you'd been given, and Helm stiffens then nods. "As I figured. Best we meet in the spaceport to discuss what comes next."
Take Skaldgar's stone back to his Family-Cairn on <destination>.
Helm meets you in the nearly deserted spaceport bar. "Ma always had a soft spot for Uncle Skaldgar. Even after he ran off 35 years ago, she still spoke fondly of him. He always sent the family money, he was good like that. Not as good, though, in sending his love."
	Helm sighs, "This is going to be tough, but as bearer of the Stone, you are going to need to present it to his son. His family lives on a drifting algae island to the south of here. Are you willing to accompany me?"
	"I've come this far. I might as well finish it."
	"Absolutely, I want to see this through."
	"No, This is as far as I go. I got the stone to you, and it's your problem now."
	Helm nods, knowingly, "Fair enough, star-traveler. I will handle it from here."
	Helm smiles when you agree to accompany him. "This is right," he says.
	After making a few preparations, he leads you out to the harbor, where you climb aboard a small ocean-going craft that you assume belongs to him. He works on the controls for a bit and then sits down across from you as the ship veers out into the open ocean.
	"It's an old custom," he says, nodding toward the stone in your hand. "Goes back to the founding of The Deep, the first settlers. On a person's 16th birthday they are given a stone to carry with them through their lives. On special, or momentous occasions, they are to carve a few runes into it, a few cherished memories chiseled into hard stone."
	Helm pauses as a flock of jabbering sea-birds passes near the ship, indicating a nearby island, and then continues. "And then when that person dies, that stone is returned by the closest family member to the Family-Cairn."
	Helm looks up and his eyes scan the horizon. "We're almost there; gather your things." Helm stands and returns to the ship's controls.
	"But why do I have to be the one to bring the stone to his son?"
	"Where do the stones come from?"
	Helm shrugs as he maneuvers the ship into dock. "It is the old way. To make certain the stone is not lost, mishandled, or acquired by enemies. If the family is not near when its owner passes, it is given to a trusted friend who becomes its bearer. That task is too important and too sacred to be given to a stranger or courier. For you to take it all the way to his son, so that he may return it to earth, is right."
	Helm shrugs as he maneuvers the ship into dock. "Wherever makes the most sense at the time a stone is given. If I recall correctly Skaldgar's stone was given to him by his mother, my grandmother, from an old mine Skaldgar had been exploring on the mainland. Even at 16 he loved the earth."
	Helm ties up the ship at a makeshift dock and you follow him toward a dour gray building not far away. You realize this entire algae island, as small as it is, must belong to a single individual or family.
	When you arrive at the hardy and sea-stained wooden door, Helm knocks thunderously upon it and calls out, "Thorleif, open up!"
	After a brief wait the door opens ponderously, revealing a large, red-bearded, middle aged man who looks like a younger and much healthier Skaldgar. You realize that you must be standing before the man's son. A wide and open grin forms on his face when he sees Helm, and he gives the man a warm embrace. "Ah cousin! It's been too long, what brings you to my humble home?"
	Thorlief then notices you and frowns. "And who have you brought with you?"
	(Answer for myself.)
	(Let Helm answer for me.)
	You smile somberly at Thorleif. "I was a friend of Skaldgar. I gave him a ride a few times, and, most recently, was entrusted with his stone."
	Helm puts a hand on Thorleif's shoulder. "This here is <first>, they've come a long way to see you, and to bring you Skaldgar's stone."
	Thorleif tenses up. "Never speak that name!" His eyes narrow. "Helm, I want nothing to do with that stone, this person," Thorleif says, gesturing toward you, "or whatever else that old man wanted or cared about."
	Thorleif glances toward the horizon as he clenches and unclenches his fists, taking a few slow breaths, regaining his composure. "I realize you have traveled far and would not be able to get back to the mainland before night. So you may stay in the guest quarters, and leave first thing in the morning. I will have no one say that Thorleif was inhospitable."
	(Keep quiet and follow Helm towards the guest rooms.)
	(Try to say something on Skaldgar's behalf.)
	"Wait," you say before Thorleif can stomp off. "I do not, could not, know all that has happened here, that has gone on between you and your father. But I know that every time I met him he clearly regretted whatever happened, and constantly spoke of his mistakes. He's gone now, mistakes and all, and this stone... I don't think it represents forgiveness, but maybe acceptance of who he was, and that now he is gone."
	Thorleif turns to you, his face flashing red, and speaks through clenched teeth, "I have no father. I have no memories of such a man, and I will make no effort to remember someone who didn't stick around long enough to know me. Now, go to your rooms and leave me be!"
	You quietly follow Helm to two small, sparsely decorated rooms, clearly intended for guest use. Helm clears his throat, "This may surprise you, but that actually went better than I thought it would."
	Helm then turns his attention to a small window and the darkening horizon beyond it. "Dark clouds are gathering, I fear we may be here longer than a single night."
	(Head off to bed as the first rains begin to patter against the roof.)
	You awake to the riotous din of hard rain crashing against the building. As Helm predicted, a powerful storm blew in during the night, the floating island besieged by savage weather. By midmorning, the walls are starting to creak as howling forces of nature bash against it unceasingly.
	You hear a door open and struggle to close, followed by the sound of heavy sloshing footsteps. Thorleif, soaked to the bone, stands before you and Helm in the main room. "It's a Fimbulhrithr," Thorleif exclaims, "One of the worst I've yet seen. If we do not act quickly it could well flatten everything on this isle. Will you help me?"
	(Offer to help Thorleif.)
	"No, I've done enough for this family already. Especially for free!"
	Thorleif growls, "Knew better than to trust a friend of that useless old man. I gave you a place to sleep, and now you won't lift a hand to save it? I should have expected no less!" Thorleif and Helm hurry off to tend to the island during the storm, leaving you idle inside.
	Thorleif and Helm heroically use the island's metal rudder and rudimentary engine to steer it away from the storm and to calmer, safer seas. However, with only the two of them many of the out-buildings are destroyed, along with a few of the small watercraft Thorleif used to fish and work on.
	You get the impression that this is an expensive and major loss for Thorleif. The moment the winds are calm, he demands Helm take you back to the mainland and your ship. "This Captain," Thorleif says, his voice oozing with disgust, "is just as lucky as my so-called father. I want him gone."
	For most of the trip back to your ship, Helm says nothing. He has been cool to you ever since you refused to help save the island. Finally, as you are preparing to disembark from his ship, he stops you. "You've done Skaldgar no favors here. I'd appreciate it if we don't see from you again."
	Helm holds up his hand showing off the stone in his palm. "I took it while you were napping. Skaldgar made a mistake with you, and I will at least see the stone properly tended. Goodbye." Helm indicates toward the exit and waits for you to depart before casting off again in his ship.
	Thorleif nods and takes you and Helm outside into the storm, or Fimbulhrithr. Thorleif and Helm work the island's metal rudder and rudimentary engine to steer the island away from the storm, while you are given the task of tying everything down that is liable to fly away.
	With the storm comes unnatural darkness, and the sky is filled with debris and fish and all manner of items that do not belong in it. You hurry as fast as you can, saving as much as possible.
	After hours of hard work, the storm begins to subside, and the sea and sky begin to calm. An exhausted Thorleif and Helm stagger over to you, and Thorleif surveys his small island. "Without your help I would have lost much of what stands intact. It was a lucky thing you came when you did."
	With that, he turns and heads back to the main dwelling, with you and Helm in tired tow.
	(Wash up and warm up in the main room around the fire.)
	You spend the evening warming yourself by a roaring fire, telling Helm and Thorleif tales of your exploits in space and many of the wonders you've seen.
	In turn, they tell you about the sea beasts, leviathans, and krakens that they have met on the ocean currents of Norn. Of lost isles filled with forgotten treasure or strange people, or stories even, about the ancient elves who once aided their ancestors and are said to be around still.
	(Ask about the elves.)
	(Ask about lost treasure.)
	The idea of Elves, or Alfar as they call them, intrigues you, and you ask what they know of them.
	"The Alfar," Thorleif begins, "are said to have been a great help to us in the early days. Some say they spared us from plagues and protected us from monsters. Many still offer sacrifices and prayers to them, so that they remember us and know that we are friends and allies still."
	Thorleif shrugs. "This may be true, and good at that, but others think the Alfar, for all their apparent good works, cannot be trusted. Their minds are unknowable and filled with mischief, and their aims are not ours. This is the belief that our family holds to. They should be respected, but also feared. We must look to each other for support and strength, and trust not in the deeds of strangers."
	You could always use a little extra money, and this trip, while engaging, has certainly not made you any richer, so you ask about hidden treasures. Helm and Thorleif both grin at this and glance at each other knowingly. They launch into tales of the riches of lost civilizations, or forgotten pirate hoards, or even early human kingdoms. It's easy to lose things on a fog-covered ocean world with floating islands, all too easy.
	When they are done regaling you with tales, they mention to you that maybe some other time they'll take you out into the deep ocean and perhaps you'll find what you're looking for. They smile wolfishly at that, and you think they might be putting you on. "Have you ever found treasure out here?" you ask.
	Thorleif shrugs. "Coming here... from Alfheim long ago, our descendants felt that the world itself was the real treasure. We have no need to go chasing dreams in the abyss."
	As the conversation winds down and the hour grows late Helm excuses himself to bed, for he, like the rest of you, is dog tired after the day's events. You stand too, feeling your own need for sleep.
	"<first>," Thorleif says without looking up from the fire. "I've been thinking. I can never forgive my father for what he did. Leaving me and mom like that. But I can, I think, make peace with it. I can accept the stone." He looks up and smiles, "You brought some luck with you, and a man should never argue with luck."
	He stands up. "We'll talk in the morning."
	(Head to bed for some well deserved sleep.)
	The day is bright and the sky is clear, the storm long forgotten as you prepare your things. Both men meet you in the main room. Thorleif opens up his hand to accept the stone, which you gladly place into it. He smiles and looks it over, tracing his finger along its chiseled runes.
	"Thank you, <first>." You nod, happy to be done with this mission and free to fly the space lanes once more.
	"Just more thing," Thorleif adds with a sly grin. "I'll need a captain willing to ferry me to Alfheim. That's where my family's cairn is located."
	Before you know it, the three of you are on Helm's boat and heading for the spaceport.
	"Alfheim," Thorleif says idly, "you know of it? The name means the home of the Alfar, or elves as you call them. I've never been there, only heard of it. It'll be strange to visit the world of my ancestors."
	Helm stays behind as you and Thorleif load your gear onto your ship.
	You're not sure exactly how you got mixed up into all this, and yet, it all feels right to you. Like you are where you should be, doing what you should do. This adventure may not involve intergalactic wars or the secrets of the ancients, but sometimes it really is just about people. People like Skaldgar and Thorleif and Helm.
The journey to Alfheim was interesting, if uneventful. Thorleif had never been in space before, and every jump left him quite ill. At the same time, however, he found so much wonder in it: seeing the dark void and bright stars with his own eyes; watching the tiny worlds recede into the distance. You could, through his eyes, experience the wild adventure of space anew.
	Throughout the trip, he told you stories of his family: They were called the Hlewagast and originally settled as some of the first colonists on Alfheim in the early history of The Deep. How they had been explorers and adventurers before taking land here to settle down on and work. How his great grandparents had decided to leave Alfheim, dismayed by the rampant pillaging of resources and looking once more for adventure, and how they had come to Norn. Seeking the waves, and the storms, and the solitude.
	Through all of this, you got a better feel for Thorleif, Skaldgard and his people, and are almost sorry when your ship approaches Alfheim.
	On landing, you are surprised by how much Alfheim reminds you of Helheim. Though the environment and ecology of the worlds are remarkably different, both are primarily used for resource extraction, and thus filled with boomtown employees and migrants looking for work, chasing dreams, and trying to make their way in the world.
	Thorleif points to the spaceport. "Let's see if we can find a guide in there. There's a village we'll need to find, assuming it even exists anymore and hasn't been abandoned or destroyed to make room for a new oil rig."
You have reached <planet>, but your escort carrying Thorleif and Helm has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Take Ragnhild and Thorleif back to <destination>.
Thorleif is clearly uncomfortable being in a place so jam-packed with people. You help him keep his bearings and work your way to a young woman managing a visitor kiosk in the Spaceport.
	The woman looks up with a tired, practiced smile. "Welcome to Alfheim. Are you looking for work, or looking for a specific rig site? Please be aware that proof of employment is required before I can give you any details on company rigs."
	Thorleif shakes his head. "Lady, no. We're not... anyone's employees, nor do we need work here. I am looking for a village, hamlet really, called Grimssalr. It's where my folk come from."
	The woman frowns for a second then seems to break from a trance as real warmth washes over her face. "I am sorry, it's just been so long since I've dealt with people who weren't looking for work. Alfheim, well, it is what it used to be, but only just more so now." She shrugs, "I know of Grimssalr though. I'm actually from Lindsvoll, in the same valley."
	"So can you tell us where it is?" Thorleif asks earnestly. The woman smiles shyly at Thorleif. "Tell you? How about I take you there?"
	(Invite her onboard.)
	(Reject the offer.)
	You start to say that it isn't necessary for her to accompany you, when Thorleif cuts you off. "That sounds great!"
	She smiles broadly at Thorleif and nods.
	(Sigh and shake my head.)
	She immediately abandons her kiosk and shrugs. "I didn't care much for that job anyways."
	You and Thorleif follow her to a local transit hovercraft, where she and Thorleif quickly sit together. You find yourself sitting alone.
	For the next three hours, it sounds as if they are in deep conversation, while you drift in and out of sleep watching as oil fields give way to rainforests and then rainforests shrink before great wooded mountains.
	At some point you feel Thorleif shaking your shoulder. "We're here."
	(Rise from my seat.)
	The town of Grimssalr is nestled along the foothills of the towering Ettin mountains in western Alfheim. Town is perhaps too generous a word; it is instead more like a couple dozen houses filled with old people long abandoned by their children seeking wealth and adventure elsewhere.
	The woman, who you've learned is named Ragnhild, introduces Thorleif to some of the folks here, and before long they have found ways to connect their ancient genealogies together and everyone is suddenly treated as family. Before you know it, you are eating their meager yet hearty fare, swapping stories of adventures, and listening to legends about the old times.
	As the sun begins to set, Thorleif approaches you, "It is time," he says. "The journey to the cairn is only a short hike from here. I would like you to accompany me. I think Skaldgar would have wanted that."
	(Accompany Thorleif.)
	"It's best that you do this alone."
	Thorleif frowns. "I cannot. It does not feel right. It is only because of you that I am here at all. I need you by my side to finish this. For me, and for him."
	"I am sorry. But I will not go."
	Thorleif's face reddens and he abruptly turns from you. He has no words left to argue with and leaves you to wait in the village.
	A short time later he returns, his eyes wet and red.
	"I have made my peace, I have read the runes of his life and returned his stone to the Family-Cairn of Hlewagast. He had few happy moments, and the only recent ones involved us both. He is gone now, and we remain." Thorleif wipes tears from his eyes. "Let us rest, and eat, and drink for a time. Skaldgar would have liked that, too."
	You follow Thorleif up a mostly overgrown trail for about half an hour before finally stepping out into a wide open plain. The wind is cool and refreshing, and the grass blows with a steadiness that is somehow reassuring. There is something special and timeless about this meadow.
	You notice over two dozen columns of stone arranged in a circle around a much more massive and impressive structure - a wall cut from some sort of metal you don't recognize. It is covered with letters and images that are unfamiliar to you.
	"That is an Elf-Stone. It is why we built our Family-Cairns here. Such stones can be found on most worlds in The Deep. Indestructible, and left by the Alfar for some unknowable reason. Some, like this one, have been mostly forgotten. Others though, are important places of celebration and even worship."
	He points at a smallish cairn next to the Elf-Stone. "This, though, is what we're here for."
	You eye the worn and weather-beaten cairn with a faded name plate that has 'Hlewagast' carved into its base.
	Thorleif approaches the cairn.
	Thorleif holds up the stone of his father in his palm and begins to read the runes carved upon it.
	"The day my mother gave me this stone and said she was proud of me."
	"The day my son Thorleif was born."
	"The day I struck the mother lode on Helheim."
	"The day I met <first>, who helped me find my family again."
	"The day I saw my son again, even though he would not see me."
	Thorleif sniffs, takes a moment to write something down he saw on the stone, and then walks forward and places it upon the cairn, at home now with hundreds of other stones each with their own handful of memories.
	"He had not so many good memories, I think," Thorleif said quietly. "I realize now that mine too are quite few. Perhaps that, if nothing else, is a lesson he can teach me. For that, I thank you, father."
	With that, Thorleif turns from the cairn with teary eyes. "It is done. Let us head back."
	(Follow Thorleif back to the village.)
	The two of you trudge back to the small hamlet of Grimssalr, with its people happy at having guests and long lost relatives, and to Ragnhild, happy to spend more time with Thorlief, where you feast and talk and laugh and remember.
	You enjoy yourself well into the evening before Thorleif approaches you. It's time to head back.
	"This place," Thorleif begins, "this world, it feels like it has forgotten its soul. Industry and greed have taken hold, and the old happy places like Grimssalr are dying. It is good my family left here all those years ago. Norn is, and has been, a good place to be."
	Thorleif then nods to Ragnhild. "Which is also why my very new and very dear friend Ragnhild has decided to join us on the return trip to Norn." You look to Ragnhild but somehow you can't feel that you're surprised at the news.
	She smiles brightly. "Best offer I've had in a long time." The three of you board your ship and prepare for the journey home.
You have reached <planet>, but your escort with the space reserved for Thorleif and Ragnhild has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
The trip back to Norn was restful.
	You spent most of it listening to Ragnhild tell the old stories and legends of Alfheim that she had learned as a child.
	Stories about alien trees whispering dark secrets, of oil barons destroying sacred sites and being cursed by alien artifacts they were too blinded by greed to see, and even tales of the elves and miracles of the Elf-Stones.
	Again, as before, you're almost sad when you make it back to Norn and the time for telling stories has ended, and the time for saying goodbye has begun.
	Thorleif wraps you in a bear hug. "I thank you for all you have done, <first>. I was so wound up in my own anger and bitterness I couldn't see anything beyond my own pain. But now, I feel like I can live again. Trust that our meeting has been etched into my own stone. I hope someday you come back and visit us. To remember us small folk on a small world so far from places of power and grand events. Remember you'll always have a home here."
	With that Thorleif and Ragnhild make their way off your ship. Thorleif only takes a few steps out into the quiet Norn spaceport before stopping suddenly and turning back towards you.
	"I almost forgot. The old man, Skaldgar, well, he had quite a bit of money saved up. I don't think he hardly spent anything on himself. Anyways, I've decided to split the inheritance with you. After taxes, your half comes out to around 500,000 even."
	Thorleif, shrugs, laughs, and walks with Ragnhild hand in hand out into the foggy mists of Norn.
Home for Skadenga
Search for the Setstokkr on <stopovers>, and then return back to <planet>.
There is a feeling of deep melancholy in the nearly deserted spaceport. A few plaques adorn the walls, proudly boasting of earlier times when Nifel was a place of relevance in the galactic community. Most are old images of researchers and doctors and their miracle cures.
	But now this place is a ghost-town, and you walk its empty halls unsure of why you even bothered to explore it in the first place.
	You turn a corner and find a woman standing near a booth with blown up images of ice-covered scenery. She waves at you excitedly.
	"Hello, ser! I hope you've been enjoying your stay in our state of the art spaceport! But why stay cooped up in here, when you could be out there?" She gestures toward the windows.
	"Explore the breath-taking Glaesisvellir ice-plains, or the boiling Slidr river. We'll even take you to the Hrimbrimr valley where the famous Rigellian cure was discovered!
	"So ser," she continues, "what do you say? Should I sign you up for the VIP Winter-Wonder Excursion Package for a special time limited-only offer of 2,000 credits?"
	"Sure, I'd love to see more of this world."
	"No, uh, thanks. Freezing to death in the frigid tundra doesn't sound like a good time to me."
	The woman frowns, but nods knowingly. "I am afraid, ser, most seem to think the way you do. Still, if you ever run into anyone out there who might be interested, let them know. We could really use the work." With that, she turns and walks briskly back to her booth.
	The woman's face lights up, and you get the sense that she isn't used to hearing "yes" very often. "Oh, that is wonderful ser, just wonderful!"
	She puts her finger to her ear and says, "Hjlod, we have a customer! Get the crawler warmed up!" The woman then drops her hand and waves to you. "Right this way, ser! And might I add - you will not be disappointed." She chatters excitedly about the cultural, artistic and scientific merits of the trip as she leads you toward a large pressure hatch.
	She hits a switch and the hatch opens; she then escorts you into a frigid maintenance dock. A loud, ugly vehicle is whirring at the center of a mess of broken and discarded parts. "There she is!" The woman is nearly shouting as she speaks over the mechanical hum. "We call her Brunhilda, the Queen of the Ice, a most.. durable vehicle, capable of giving you an authentic ice-explorer experience!"
	The Ice-Crawler, Brunhilda, looks less than dependable to you. It appears to be a run-down, mishmash of parts and jury-rigged technology forced onto a three century old Ice-Crawler, probably used by the original colonists.
	"Are you sure this thing is safe?"
	"How old is this thing?!"
	The woman hesitates. "Don't you worry! Why, that Ice-Crawler is the safest place in all of Nifel! Those other accidents were flukes, and what happened to her sister Ice-Crawler, Gudrun, was entirely unforeseeable."
	"Well, you know the old saying, 'They don't build 'em like they used to?' It's your lucky day because that is when this was built! Part of the excitement of the tour is riding in an authentic four hundred year old colonial Ice-Crawler."
	The woman pulls out a small touchscreen. "For very standard liability reasons, I need you to quickly put your digital signature right here. You, or your estate, can't sue us if you're injured or die on the excursion. Furthermore there is no expectation of rescue should you get lost out there, or the Ice-Crawler breaks down." She gives you a small forced smile. "Not that it ever would happen, and like I said, this is a very standard waiver in the tourist trade. I wouldn't think too much about it."
	She holds up the touchscreen for you to sign.
	(Key my signature.)
	"I've changed my mind. I am going to pass on this excursion."
	The woman's face, red with the cold, looks crest-fallen, but unsurprised, like she was half expecting this outcome. "Brunhilda can be an... intimidating vehicle, it's true. But she is safe ser, I assure you. Either way, I'll take you back to the spaceport."
	With that, you follow the woman back to the warm and nearly empty spaceport, where she leaves you to return to her forlorn booth.
	With your signature in hand, the woman's eyes sparkle, and there is a skip in her step as she leads you to the Ice-Crawler. She pulls a lever on the outside of the vehicle that opens a door and releases a ramshackle ramp for you to climb. She indicates that you should walk up the feeble looking ramp. "Hjlod will be your driver and tour-guide for the duration of your excursion. She is waiting for you within. On behalf of Intrepid Ice Adventures Limited, I would like to wish you a happy and safe expedition!"
	(Board the Ice-Crawler.)
	The Ice-Crawler, 'Brunhilda,' smells of oil, atmosphere, and perspiration. The confines are tight, with a padded bench area and threadbare seat-belts. There are wires and hard angles everywhere. You're careful not to get tangled in the green, white and blue wires running overhead and into the cockpit. You take a seat and strap in.
	It is only a little warmer here than it was in the maintenance dock. To your left and right are wide, scratched, and frost-rimmed windows.
	"Velcome. I am called Hjlod." The thickly accented woman looks back from the driver's seat. She has short blonde hair, and her face and arms are covered in long weaving blue tattoos. "I am from here. I have spent whole life traversing this tundra. I know like back of hand." She gives you a lopsided grin and then pats the steering console. "And Brunhilda here, she never let you down."
	Hjlod turns away from you and starts pulling some levers. "Now," she says, "let's begin."
	(Sit back as the motor hums and the Ice-Crawler lurches to a start.)
	After a few hours of crawling through a bleak, blank wasteland in silence, Hjlod turns the crawler into what looks like a bleaker and blanker wasteland.
	"This is famous Glaesisvellir ice-plain. Story say once whole convoy of researcher disappear here. Can drill hole in ice for fishing. There is very good tasting voolly octopus beneath it." Hjlod slows down and looks back at you. "You have question?"
	"What happened to the researchers?"
	"Is it safe to drive over the ice?"
	"Are there sea-monsters beneath the ice?"
	"Nope. No questions."
	"Long time ago. Researcher convoy look for bacterial pharmaceutical. Many researcher convoy in area. Most smart use native pathfinder, like me. This convoy, they not so smart, they say pathfinder waste of money. They go out in ice alone and they never come back."
	Hjlod shrugs. "Maybe they fall in ice. Maybe they get eaten by Ice-Slug. Maybe avalanche fall on them. Maybe fall on own veapon and die. Nobody ever find them. Tour-guide book say that some night you can see their ghost haunting ice. Tour-guide book dumb."
	"Any more question?"
	"Very safe. Except when not. Ice always frozen, but sometime very thin. I can tell. You cannot. Trust Hjlod and you not drown and get eaten by Ice-Slug."
	"You have more question?"
	"Every world have animal. Some animal big, some small. Voolly octopus, mostly small. Size of this Ice-Crawler, only. Vorst in Glaesisvellir ice-plains is Ice-Slug. They can squeeze through tiniest hole in ice. This take long time, for they are as big as house. They have no teeth, too hard to squeeze through little hole, but they have acid spit. Put hole in Ice-Crawler, easy. They eat many foolish researcher and tourist."
	She smiles at you. "You're not foolish tourist. You are with Hjlod. You are safe."
	"Is smart, not to ask question. Hjlod tell you best parts only." Hjlod gives you a quick grin and swivels back into her makeshift cockpit. "Enough ice-plain, now ve go to next stop."
	(Look out at the bright Ice-Plains as they slowly disappear into the dull horizon.)
	The Ice-Crawler plows through snow, hill, mountain, and tundra for another hour or two before a massive and oddly shaped rock passes into view. Hjlod stops the Ice-Crawler so you can look at it.
	"This is rock," she says matter-of-factly. You look at it for a while and realize there is a face half chiseled into it.
	"You are done looking? Ve are good to move to next stop?" Hjlod asks.
	"Yep, I don't need to look at this rock any longer."
	"Wait, is that part of a man's face carved into it? What is so special about this rock?"
	"That rock is supposed to celebrate man who discover Rigellian cure. He was called Hank, or Henry, or Bill, or something." Hjlod shrugs with evident disdain. "The cure was found here, but back when tundra was melting and Nifel was a little varmer. They say this man discover it and they want to make grand statue for him. But it turn out Nifel not so great place for statue. Beside, no one like statue of liar."
	Hjlod turns back to her controls and gets the Ice-Crawler moving forward again. "That is enough about stupid rock and stupider man.
	"Now ve go to river," she tells you. The large, oddly shaped rock falls out of your field of view as the Ice-Crawler turns away from it.
	The uneventful journey to the boiling ice river of Slidr is suddenly interrupted when a deep tremor followed by a thunderous boom shakes the Ice-Crawler to its core and causes it to slip on the disturbed ice and snow. Somewhere outside, subsequent rumble starts to build rapidly. After Hjlod regains control of the crawler, she immediately veers away from the noise. "That vas Nifel-quake, and loud noise was avalanche, or landslide, maybe both. This is not good."
	Despite her calm demeanor, she wields the Ice-Crawler with reckless abandon as she tries to avoid the rumbling snow. The machine protests with creaks and whirrs and pops as it strains to claw itself out of the way faster than it has probably gone for hundreds of years. The closer the rumbling gets, the more difficulty Hjlod seems to have retaining traction.
	"I think-" Hjlod starts to say when a mountain of snow crashes into the Ice-Crawler with deafening force. All sense of travelling distance is lost as the snow blots out the windows and the crawler is dragged bumping and twisting over uneven terrain. You and Hjlod hold tight as you're tossed around until, eventually, the crawler grinds up against something reasonably solid and comes suddenly to a rest, partially on its side.
	A few moments later, the rumbling finishes passing you by.
	(Unbuckle the seatbelt and get up.)
	By the time you are on your feet, Hjlod has already gathered up numerous supplies and is preparing to open the hatch and dig her way to the surface. She looks at you. "Nothing to vorry about. Happens all time. Vell, not really. First time this happen, but Hjlod not let you die, probably. I can lead us to settlement not far from here."
	She tosses you an old, scruffy jacket with a tear along one of its arms. "Valking in cold, good for health. Maybe not as far as ve must go, but you laugh about later. Good story to tell back home."
	(Put on the jacket and follow Hjlod out onto the ice.)
	"No way. I am done with this. I am calling my ship, or fixing this Ice-Crawler. Either way, I am not going anywhere."
	Hjlod shrugs. "You may die, or maybe not. Signals vork strange here at times. Good luck and remember. No refund." With that, Hjlod opens the hatch and disappears in the cold white flurry outside.
	(Quickly shut the hatch behind her.)
	Alone, you have a decision to make. You can dismantle portions of the Ice-Crawler and use them to strengthen your personal comms to get a signal out to the <ship>. Or, you can try to repair the Ice-Crawler and get it running again - in which case you wouldn't be able to use its parts to boost your comm signal.
	(Cannibalize the Ice-Crawler to communicate.)
	(Try to fix the Ice-Crawler.)
	You have much more faith in your ship than some antique vehicle. You spend hours ripping once-vital machinery out of the Ice-Crawler in order to make a signal booster for your comms, eventually cobbling together a functional booster and programming a repeating burst S.O.S. message into it.
You're certain your ship will eventually pick it up. Unfortunately, the damage you've done to the Ice-Crawler has affected its heater, which gives out during your eighth hour of waiting. In the meantime, you put on the jacket Hjlod left you and stuff it with rags and trash in a bid to keep warm.
	(Try to ignore the cold and get some sleep.)
	As the hours go by, you lose feeling in your hands and feet. There are no rations, and what stale warmth was once here is now gone. Hopefully, you didn't make a mistake waiting here. You know you made a mistake by going on this miserable tour. You just want to be warm again, and you certainly don't want to die here.
	You begin to fade in and out of consciousness, when suddenly you feel a deep vibration, and hear a low rumble from outside.
	There is no memory of what happens next. But somehow you must have crawled out of that ice buried Ice-Crawler, through the snow, and into the hatch of your ship, because the next thing you do remember is laying in your ship, warming up, and being glad that the ordeal is over.
	After hours of tinkering with the guts of the machine, you manage to repair most of it, and all it costs you is one bad burn on your arm. Now, what it comes down to is a sequence of wires. If you can plug these in correctly, the Ice-Crawler should start back up.
	(White, green, blue.)
	(Green, white, blue.)
	(Blue, green, white.)
	You're confident that this is the correct sequence of wires. You plug each one in and start the Ice-Crawler up. The vehicle hums to life.
	(Pump a fist into the air.)
	(Cheer.)
	In a moment of levity, you pump your fist into the air.
	Unfortunately, your fist does not make it very far. The Ice-Crawler, with its criss-crossed wires, has a critical energy build up that results in an instantaneous, completely deadly explosion.
	The Ice-Crawler, your entire body, your fist, and more than a couple hundred tons of snow are all incinerated in a fraction of a second.
	The sense of accomplishment inside you is so overwhelming that you find yourself unable to contain it. A cry of pure joy leaps out of your mouth. Or begins to. Unfortunately, it doesn't get too far, as the Ice-Crawler, with its criss-crossed wires, has a critical energy build up that results in an instantaneous, completely deadly explosion.
	The Ice-Crawler, your entire body, and more than a couple hundred tons of snow are all incinerated in a fraction of a second.
	With the final cord in place, you hold your breath as you start the Ice-Crawler. The engine hums to life and you wait a few more cautious seconds for the inevitable explosion... which never comes.
	You breathe easy. You did it! After a few minutes getting accustomed to the controls you manage to pull the Ice-Crawler out of the snow. What will you do now?
	(Follow Hjlod's tracks.)
	(Try and find a way to the spaceport.)
	You've had enough of this expedition. Hjlod said she was fine, and you'll leave it at that. You turn the Ice-Crawler around and make your way back to the spaceport.
	It only takes a couple hours, and the controls on the Ice-Crawler are relatively easy. When you pull into the maintenance dock, the sales woman comes to meet you and is dismayed that Hjlod is not with you.
	She hasn't heard from Hjlod and fears the worst. You hope it all works out as you head back to your ship and as far away from this place as possible.
	Hjlod's tracks are clearly visible in the crisp snow, and you're able to follow them for hours. Just as the second sun is setting, the footprints come to an end at a mound of snow.
	You leave the vehicle and investigate. You find an exhausted, freezing Hjlod and help her back into the Ice-Crawler. She does not have the strength to speak, and you worry without immediate medical attention that she won't make it.
	As darkness descends, you see a flickering light in the distance.
	(Drive toward the flickering light.)
	(Drive back to the spaceport.)
	There is no guarantee that the flicker of light is anything more than a waste of time. You turn the Ice-Crawler around and head back toward the spaceport at the fastest speed you dare.
	Long hours pass and you press on while Hjlod lays unconscious...
	Finally, in the dead of night you arrive back at the spaceport. Medics swarm your vehicle, and while you learn she'll live, you are also told that she will lose her hands and feet to frostbite. The woman who sold you the excursion thanks you profusely for saving her friend, but still refuses to give you a refund.
	Exhausted, you drive toward the flickering light and discover it is emanating from a small village.
	Moments after entering what you assume is the village center, people flock toward your idle vehicle. Before you know it, they have the hatch open and have carried Hjlod out.
	A young woman, bearing facial tattoos similar to Hjlod, approaches you and escorts you to a communal bunk house for the night. You're too tired to get a handle on what is going on and decide that it can wait for tomorrow.
	(Sleep now, think later.)
	You throw on the jacket and stuff a few rags in your coat for good measure.
	Hjlod nods at you and opens the hatch. "It is only meter to surface."
	She plunges into the snow and swim-climbs her way up it. You follow her, and though the cold is shocking, you are relieved when you quickly rise above it into the icy clear air above.
	"Stay close," she says as she begins to trek through the snow. "Any path but mine is dangerous."
	(Walk in Hjlod's footsteps.)
	(Meander around.)
	Hjlod abruptly stops and glares at you. "You are fool. You vill certainly die, and you endanger me in process. This is no game, valk only vhere I valk or die."
	(Continue to meander.)
	You walk in your looping meandering pattern, stepping where you want, and not paying any attention to the path Hjlod is taking.
	You feel righteous vindication as the hours pass and nothing bad happens; proof that Hjlod was just being bossy. She should have no say over what you are doing; it's her fault you're stuck out here stranded on some trash-planet in the blinding cold in the first place.
	At that thought you do some anger-stomping, really letting her know that you could care less about her worthless warnings. Which is, of course, when you hear a weird gurgling sizzle. You look down at your feet and see there is not packed snow beneath them, but that a gray-purple blob that has wrapped itself around your leg.
	(Try and shake free.)
	(Call out to Hjlod for help.)
	Damn your pride. "Hjlod, help! Something's got my foot!" you cry.
	Hjlod looks back at you with a dull expression on her face. "Is it purple-gray in color?"
	"Yes, yes! Quick, help. I don't know what to do."
	"Vhat you do is listen to Hjlod, and not make stompy circles in snow like spoilt child."
	"Please, Hjlod!" You cry as the last of your boot dissolves away and you feel the slimy slug on your exposed foot.
	"It is too late. Ice-Slug has you. Vhat you do now is die. Horribly." Hjlod turns and starts jogging away from you.
	(Try and pull free.)
	Despite using all your strength, your leg won't budge. The sizzling noise continues and you are overwhelmed with a sharp horrific burning sensation. Your eyes water and you scream out in pain for help and mercy.
	You keep pulling, trying to break free. The air thickens with the scent of your liquified foot, and something gives as you fall forward. You look down to see your leg missing from the knee down. You try to push it out of your mind as you desperately claw forward, trying to escape the gray-purple blob that is forming up behind you.
	Try as you might, you can't cry out Hjlod's name; instead your screams are savage, hollow noises. You reach for her, you reach for anyone, but it's too late. The Ice-Slug has caught up to you, and you feel its acidic tendrils wrapping around your remaining leg and lower torso. The pain is agonizing as your lower body begins to dissolve.
	You look up one last desperate time, hoping to see Hjlod coming to rescue you, but all you see is a gray smudge on the horizon, a distant person who has long left you for dead. You are alone now with the Ice-Slug and the pain. You consider briefly your mistakes before you are dissolved and eaten.
	The cold, monotonous trudging weighs on you as the hours pass. You're dimly aware of Nifel's two suns as they make their journey across the wide open sky.
	Evening and exhaustion approach hand in hand, and as the last sun sets, you're not sure how much farther you can go. "There!" Hjlod breaks the silence of hours as she points at the weak flicker of light in the twilight landscape. "This is good," she admits hoarsely as you both stumble toward the light. "Ve vould have not survived night."
	The night air grows too cold. You slow as your body begins to shutdown and frostbite gnaws at your hands, feet and exposed arm. The light is still too distant, and you can barely move. You think you see the shadows of humanoid figures against the light. But then you stumble and fall. You crawl for as long as you can. And then nothing.
	(Wake up.)
	The pale morning light of the first sun filters in through a synthetic window and onto your face. You try to escape back into sleep, but something feels off and groggily you peer out at your surroundings.
	The pale morning light of the first sun filters in through a synthetic window and onto your face. Your body aches and you try to sink back into sleep, but something feels off and you focus on your surroundings.
	You're in a half-wooden, half-synthetic barracks, a strange mix of primitive earth-tech and old colonial architecture. That, in and of itself, isn't that alarming. What is, however, is the group of people gathered around your bed quietly staring and pointing at you.
	The crowd steps back, and an elderly woman steps forward. Her gray hair is rolled up into tight, elegant braids, and her face and hands are covered in faded, blue tattoos.
	"We are pleased to call you guest. You have saved our daughter, and more; you will save us all." The elderly woman and everyone behind her kneels before you.
	"Woah, woah, woah! What do you mean 'save us all?'"
	"Your daughter? Hjlod? Is she alright?"
	The elderly woman smiles warmly. "It is good of you to ask. Thanks to you, Hjlod will be fine. Had you been any later, she would have lost her hands, or worse. But she is recovering now and will join us later."
	The elderly woman opens her palms and spreads them wide. "This is village of Udainsakr. I am Ondurdis, or leader, and we are Skadenga, daughters of Skade, the Troll-Goddess of ice, mountains, and cold."
	"For nearly century we have been waiting for person who bore mark of Skade." She points a tattooed hand at the electric burn on your arm you received while repairing the Ice-Crawler. "It seems we have been waiting for you."
	"For nearly century we have been waiting for person who bore mark of Skade." She points a tattooed hand at the ice burn on your arm you received while traveling through the snow. "It seems we have been waiting for you."
	"What do you expect me to do?"
	"What do you mean a century? How long have you been here? Why were you waiting for me?"
	The Ondurdis raises an eyebrow. "So you want to know our secrets? We ask much, so I will tell you more than most know. Long ago, the so-called-elves brought the Skadenga to Deep. We had to make penance for some mistakes. Our volva, or seeress, saw that to make amends we must come to Nifel. We did not know why, but when we found the Goddess-Stone, we knew we had made right decision.
	"Since then, we have lived here and acted as guides and pathfinders to others. It was one of our sisters, Eymani, an herbalist, who discovered the cure to Rigellian plague. We thought this was why we had been sent here. Our duty to act as handmaidens of healing.
	"With each passing year, Nifel grows colder and outsiders less frequent. Our numbers dwindle as does our usefulness. This is dying world, and we need new home. Eighty years ago one of our holiest sisters had vision. She saw that stranger with mark of Skade would arrive and that stranger would help us find new home."
	The Ondurdis points a boney finger right at you. "First, you must discover which world will be our home. Then you must find us transportation. We will of course pay you in one way or another. Would you do this for us?"
	"I'll do it. I won't let you guys down."
	"No. This isn't my problem. I just need to get back to my ship."
	The Ondurdis bows and steps back. "If that is your wish, then you must not be the one we wait for." With that, she and everyone else leave the barracks.
	You climb out of your bunk and head to the Ice-Crawler. From there, you head straight back to the spaceport. The trip takes a few hours and you spend some of it pondering the strange course of events - how you went from a life or death struggle against the elements to being some rustic community's savior.
	"Oh, well." You say to yourself, "I can't save everyone."
	You hear the familiar rumble of a shuttle overhead, you climb out of your bunk to go to meet it. From there, you head straight back to the spaceport. The trip is brief, and you have little time to consider all that has transpired since you decided to take the excursion. You worry you may need therapy.
	The spaceport rises into to view, and before you know it you're back safely onboard your ship.
	The Ondurdis smiles. "Thank you." She nods toward the door. "Come with me."
	In the light of early day, the village looks stranger than you remember. Carved wooden structures weave flawlessly into sleek fabricated composites in a marriage of ancient with new. Oddly enough, the effect does not clash, but instead gives off an impression of seamless artistry. To the south, there is an open space filled with high-stacked stone cairns. At the center of the space, or holy site, is a giant wall made of an unusual gleaming metal and surrounded by eight ornate wooden pillars. The wall, despite being filled with strange letters and images, is dominated by the single image of a giant humanoid. As you stare into the structure, you feel unnaturally chilly.
	"That is Goddess-Stone." The Ondurdis gestures toward the large stone-wall. "This is why we settled here. Most worlds in Deep have stones like this upon them. They go by many names; Elf-Stones, God-Stones, Jotun-Stones, and more. Now, at base of wall, those pillars, they are our Setstokkr. They are holy relics of our folk, and guided us here, to this very wall, long ago. Just as they will guide us once more to our new home. There are eight Setstokkr here, but once there was nine."
	The Ondurdis turns back to you. "You must find the ninth Setstokkr, the missing pillar. It was dropped in space long ago, and we believe based on where it started it could have only found its way to one of two worlds. It either on Windblain in the Regor system, or Asgard in the Naos system." Offering you a small storage device, the Onduris continues, "Setstokkr have... unusual properties. This drive contains information that will allow you to track them. Go to these worlds, see if you can find the Setstokkr, and return to us with news. We are eager to know where Skade will send us."
	The sky glows and the earth rumbles as a shuttle lands not far from the village. "That shuttle will return you to the spaceport and your ship. May Skade guide you." With that The Ondurdis leaves you.
	(Head to the shuttle)
	(Take a moment to investigate Goddess-Stone.)
	You walk toward the park filled with stone cairns, wooden pillars and Goddess-Stone.
	At this distance, you can see that the cairns have name-plates at their bases. Some are so faded and worn you cannot make out the names. Others are easier to read and appear to be family names. Myrlinga, Baning, and Amalung are the few you can read.
	Beyond the cairns are the well-carved wooden pillars, or Setstokkr as the Ondurdis called them. They are each over 10 meters tall, and all covered entirely in runic script, images, and patterns. A few have unshorn branches that include their own carvings as well, while most are limbless. On one Setstokkr, you notice that a frequent carving within its entwined animals is similar in shape to the burn on your arm.
	Finally, you reach the massive Goddess-Stone itself. You see now almost no part of the wide surface is bare. There are images within images, letters within letters. These exotic letters bear no relationship to the runes found on the Setstokkr. These are truly alien.
	(Head to the shuttle.)
	A lone figure stands next to the idling shuttle. As you draw closer you recognize Hjlod.
	"I just vant to thank you." Hjlod's gray-blue eyes glitter in the morning light. "I alvays say Hjlod keep tourist safe. But yesterday you save Hjlod. I vill not forgot, know this."
	A lone figure stands next to the idling shuttle. As you draw closer, you recognize Hjlod. "You see," she says, "Stick with Hjlod, and you live, probably." She holds up a bandaged, three-fingered hand and shrugs. "Mostly."
	Hjlod offers one of her lopsided grins and then leaves you alone with the shuttle. It is time to go.
	You land on the final world you were asked to visit. Once you're done here, you should return to Nifel.
	Upon landing, you get a recorded voice message from Hjlod. "<first>, ve're busy evacuating isolated Skadenga communities. Come back in few veeks vhen things settle down."
	The message abruptly ends.
In the high-atmosphere of <origin>, your ship's sensors pick up traces of the exotic Setstokkr matter. They pinpoint the material to the southern rim of a sparsely-populated island-continent, in the small coastal settlement of Hrithfjall.
	Your ship lands just outside the settlement, and you leave with your handheld tracker keyed to the Setstokkr material. The trail goes cold once you enter the settlement. The hamlet Hrithfjall is little more than a few dozen wooden structures along a single overgrown road. The buildings themselves are well-crafted and finely designed, but many of them appear to be abandoned. There are no townsfolk about, but you notice recent footprints headed toward the shore, which you follow.
	The great seas of Windblain churn beneath the chalk-white cliffs and blue-green sky. As you scan the horizon, your eyes catch the glare of reflected light beyond a distant precipice. You head in that direction and find a figure seated at the precipice's edge. An aged man sits cross-legged, looking out into the sea and at a gleaming metal wall towering over the gray waves about a mile out from shore.
	The old man speaks without turning and says in a raspy voice, "Hail, stranger. Have you come to pay your respects?"
	"Pay my respects to what?"
	"Why, the Ran-Stone, of course." The old man points toward the metal tower in the sea. "Few come here any more. Few remember, or care, about the old ways. But the goddess Ran, she is as patient and as terrible as the sea, and like the sea, she has claimed this world.
	"So why are you here bothering old Aldfrith, if not to look upon the great countenance of divinity?"
	"I am called Aldfrith. I live in nearby Hrithfjall, though I spent most my life living on the sea and making every port my home." Aldfrith's eyes glaze over for a moment as he speaks.
	"But those days are behind me. Now, I mostly sit, think, and live. On the high seas I saw things... things that cannot be explained, that cannot be understood. So, now I sit here, before the great Ran-Stone, the very countenance of divinity, and reflect upon mystery."
	"So why are you here, if not to pay respect to Ran?"
	"I am looking for an ornate wooden pillar covered in carvings that fell from space."
	"Have you seen any old, wooden relics around here?"
	Aldfrith strokes his white beard for a moment. "The tide brings in all sorts of interesting driftwood. But driftwood from space? That's a tall tale or a deep mystery, that is."
	He looks up at you with a bemused smirk. "Nope. Nothing like that here. If you're interested in the driftwood though, that gets used for our boats and homes."
	"Relics, eh?" Aldfrith cackles. "Sailors will always be over-eager to tell a stranger about fantastic treasures in the deep waves."
	The old man pauses and scratches his head for a moment. "But, alas, I can think of nothing wood-made that would be considered a relic. The salty air and saltier sea don't allow untreated wood to linger long in these parts. Unless it's a boat or a home, your relic is not here."
	You turn your attention to the great, gleaming metal wall in the sea. Unlike the Goddess-Stone of Nifel, this one has no towering figure upon it. Instead it is more abstract, with fractal swirls and wave-like patterns. As you stare at it, you feel a wildness growing inside your heart that dissipates the moment you look away. You turn, leaving the stone to its wave, and the man to his stone.
	You run your tracker in Hrithfjall once more, but again it fails to lock onto anything. There are faint diffuse traces of the exotic material all around you, but nothing concrete. There is little more you can learn here at the moment, so you head back to your ship.
When you enter <planet>'s atmosphere, you receive a message that Hjlod will be waiting for you in the spaceport.
	Before you have a chance to head into the port however, you are met by a well-dressed administrator and a couple of nondescript guards.
	"Captain <last>," the administrator says crisply. "You are invited to a meeting in the VIP Conference room. If you would please follow me."
	"Pass. Have your bosses send me a letter or something, and I'll be sure to get to it in my own time."
	"No, thanks. I'm actually supposed to be meeting someone."
	"Sure thing. Lead the way."
	The guards take you by the arms. "I am pleased you are being so agreeable. Consider this a precaution." The administrator promptly turns, and you all follow.
	As you try to get around the administrator, his goons grab you. "Respectfully, Captain, this is not an invitation you are at liberty to dismiss."
	"Ah yes, don't worry. We have the port authority keeping your hill-witch friend busy. You'll likely be done before she is." The administrator nods to his guards, who close in on you.
	"Regrettably, this is not an invitation you are at liberty to ignore. So let us be on our way, shall we?"
	You are brought to a large research complex just outside the spaceport, and deposited in a high-end, white, minimalistic conference room with two well-dressed and important looking men. "Thank you, Lars. Take the guards and wait for us outside," the man seated across from you says.
	"Of course, sir." The administrator, whose name seems to be Lars, turns and is followed outside by his two goons.
	The man who spoke looks at you with a friendly smile and, without a shred of irony, says, "I am so glad you agreed to meet with us. I realize an accomplished Captain like yourself is in great demand, so we will endeavor to keep this brief."
	"I am Jakob Forsyth, Vice Planetary-Governor of Nifel and CEO of Nifel-Research Solutions Incorporated, and the man sitting beside me is Henrik Fogel, Deputy Lieutenant-Sub-Director of the Census and Culture Bureau for The Deep. We've been monitoring you ever since you first arrived and became entangled with those sad, backwards, hill-witches." Jakob takes a sip from an elegant glass on the table.
	"If you've been watching me, does that mean you knew about the Ice-Crawler accident and did nothing?"
	"Of course I knew." Jakob answers. "It is my business to know. The only people who live here anymore are employees of my firm and those hill-witches." Holding up both hands in a placating gesture, he adds, "And I really am sorry we could not extract you from that avalanche. We don't have the resources allocated to support rescue missions anymore; various services, including emergency ones, are only barely functional. The whole operation on this planet is being shut down, you know. Not enough opportunity to make a profit left here. That's why it will be completely uninhabited within 50 years."
	"You're abandoning an entire planet?"
	He leans forward with a sly look on his face. "Think about it. Why employ a worldwide workforce of 300,000 in the vain hope of discovering new pharmaceutical products on a snowy wasteland? There hasn't been a profitable discovery here in generations. It's a money pit. You run a ship, a business, you understand.
	"There is, however, one hiccup." Jakob leans back. "A thorn that has been in our side since our research firm first colonized this world over 600 years ago. Those crazy hill-witches. Sure, early on they had their uses as guides and whatnot. But, they are a cultural dead end, an atavistic blight on our corporate world. You know," he continues with a humorous glint in his eye, "They actually believe that they were brought here during Earth's stone-age by magical space-fairies."
	"Now, now." Henrik finally cuts in. "We here in the Deep do value all our resident people and cultures. We are not here to denigrate our citizens, no matter how unusual."
	"But they're leaving. So what's the problem?"
	"I thought folk tales of elves were common in the Deep. What makes the Skadenga so different from the rest of you?"
	Henrik leans back. "Well, you're not wrong. In fact, there's been studies about whether the Skadenga are truly a traditional reflection of the Deep people or an extreme offshoot of what we used to be. Suffice to say, I believe it's the latter, and most modern Deep historians would agree with me.
	"Here's what really makes them different: our popular folk tales are like the childhood stories you heard of, say, the boogeyman. The Skadenga don't just tell them - they formed a religion out of those stories. If you've spoken with them, I'm sure you can tell that it's quite reminiscent of ancient paganism. Certainly they can practice whatever they want, but we're concerned about some of the usual connotations of paganism. We haven't been able to prove any extreme behavior, but their religion gives us reason to suspect it. If they stay culturally isolated from the rest of the Deep, their religion could progress in ways more... harmful. I'll leave it at that."
	Henrik clears his throat. "Leaving, yes, but to where? These poor people are in grave need of our help, our public services. Their primitive, superstitious existence is both an embarrassment to the Deep, and a humanitarian crisis that we need to solve."
	"The Deep would never forcibly resettle a population. But with your help, we have an opportunity to guide them to a place where they could receive the help they need. We know you recently visited Windblain and Asgard. Sending them to Windblain, a barely inhabited world with no useful public services, would be a huge mistake. These poor wretches would disappear into the uncharted wilds. Asgard, however, has a robust civil service and safety net that would be perfect to help them adapt to our modern culture.
	"This is why I asked the Vice Planetary-Governor to hold this meeting. The Deep needs you to convince these poor, backwards people that they should live on Asgard." Henrik shrugs. "For all we know, you've already decided to tell them Asgard is the best choice, in which case we're really not asking you to do anything you weren't already planning on doing. We will also help facilitate the move by providing transportation. Furthermore, for your support in this delicate matter, we will transfer 850,000 credits to your account upon their arrival in Asgard. Really, everyone wins this way."
	"But the Skadenga-"
	"I don't think-"
	"That's great news-"
	Jakob interrupts you before you have a chance to finish your sentence. "Now, listen, you just think it over. We don't need your answer now. All we need is for you to guide those people to Asgard. If you do that, the Transport Union on Valhalla will have the ships you need. If you don't, well, things might be more difficult for everyone. And remember, we'll pay you in real credits. Not charm bracelets."
	"Lars!" Jakob calls, and the administrator and his two guards promptly enter the room. "Show Captain <last> back to their ship. Our meeting is concluded."
	"Of course, sir," Lars replies.
	The guards grab you and "escort" you off the premises. With that distraction out of the way, it's time to go meet Hjlod at the spaceport.
In the crowded high-atmosphere of Asgard, it is difficult to find any reading that matches that of the exotic Setstokkr material. You do get one anomalous ping from a related material located in the urban center of Helsingor.
	Your ship lands in a regional spaceport that serves Helsingor, and your handheld tracker leads you to the heart of the city, where you discover a massive, winding mall. The tracker leads you inside the mall.
	Once inside, your eyes catch the glint of a vast metallic structure around which the entire mall is built. You can make out unusual pictures and alien letters carved into it. It appears that the shopping mall has been built around Asgard's God-Stone, and that the Stone is being used as an exotic accent wall for the myriad of shops in the structure.
	(Follow the tracker.)
	For a moment you forget the God-Stone and focus on following the tracker. It leads you to a themed restaurant on the top floor called "The Adventurer's Due." The restaurant is filled with exotic artifacts allegedly taken from all corners of known and unknown space.
	Your tracker homes in on one case. It contains a rune covered box, with patterns that look similar to those used by the Skadenga. The panel above it reads:
	'This box once contained the cure to the Rigellian Plague. It belonged to the renowned explorer, adventurer, and researcher Dr. Henry Forsyth. It was donated by the Forsyth Foundation for Academic Honesty.'
	Disappointed, you head back down to the lower levels of the mall and take a seat at a small in-door park at the base of God-Stone. After a moment, a woman wearing a well-pressed pantsuit approaches you.
	(Offer a non-committal "Hello.")
	(Grin and say, "Hey!")
	(Ignore her.)
	"Hello!" She gives you a professional smile. "It's a beautiful place, isn't it? Not just the mall, but the town of Helsingor itself."
	She sits next to you. "You might not realize it, but homes here are incredibly affordable right now. If you're looking for a new place to live, now is the time." She lowers her voice. "But you'll have to act soon. The Helsingor secret is about to get out, and once it does, prices here will skyrocket!
	"There are three huge prefabricated housing developments that have just completed construction on the edges of town. I could get you an appointment today if you're interested." She hands you a card. "My name is Carla Von Hausen, and I'd be happy to serve as your real-estate agent." She gives you a sharp, practiced smile that does not quite reach her eyes.
	"Beat it, lady."
	"Thanks, but I am just passing through."
	"My home is among the stars."
	A frown flickers across Carla's face for a brief second before her professional smile reasserts itself. "Trust me, why rent when you can own? Why move a large family to an empty world with poor restaurant selections when you could move them here?"
	She stands and smooths her suit jacket. "When you change your mind, I'll be here." With that, she's gone, and you are free to turn your attention back to the God-Stone.
	Carla rewards you with a condescending smile. "Ah, darling. You might work in space, but eventually, you'll need a world to call home."
	She stands and smooths her suit jacket. "When you are ready to make the real-estate leap, you know where to find me." Carla winks at you and then strolls off in the crowds of shoppers. Alone, you turn your attention back to the God-Stone.
	The parts of the God-Stone that are exposed at this level are dull and lusterless. You search for a pattern but can make nothing out due to how little of the wall is visible. It's sectioned off, with every shop and restaurant having its own piece. As you stare at it you feel nothing, just an emptiness. You do notice a plaque by a large part of unobstructed wall.
	(Read the plaque.)
	(Return to my ship.)
	The plaque labels the God-Stone as "Colonial Graffiti" and reads:
	During the Colonization of The Deep in the 23rd Century, the earliest colonists erected large metal slabs and wrote pseudo-letters on them. It is believed that this was done in order to raise the prestige of their early worlds. They would claim the stones were powerful alien artifacts, or that they were made by an earlier population of humans who had arrived on the world thanks to the intercession of fairies.
	Either for profit, or out of a longing for home, many local communities promoted these ideas about the origins of these structures. Scientists have determined these structures were once large segments of the metal hulls of the original colony ships. To date, there has been some difficulty in identifying exactly what alloy they were constructed from.
	Most worlds in the Deep have "Colonial Graffiti," and they are proud reminders of our enterprising colonial origins. They are sometimes known in older texts, and by early communities, as God-Stones and Elf-Stones.
	Here at the Helsingor Family-Fun-Shopping-Center, we are committed to celebrating our past! This is why we, in the spirit of graffiti being the cultural touchstone of the day, have renovated this colonial structure into a central communication piece and made it a vital part of our vibrant community!'
	You finish reading the plaque, and look at the dull gray metal wall and the inhuman things carved upon it. It looks nothing like a ship's hull.
	These people seem disconnected from their past. You wonder if the Skadenga could help them reconnect with it, but worry that the place would change the Skadenga more than they could change it. There is nothing more you can do here. You head back to your ship.
Transport for Skadenga
Travel to <destination> to secure transportation for the Skadenga.
There are no signs of Hjlod when you arrive at the mostly empty spaceport. You spend a few minutes wandering around before you see her heading down the hall toward you. "Sorry to be late, you vould not believe all paper-vork they had for me. I think they aren't happy about Ice-Crawler."
	"That's okay. I didn't mind waiting."
	"I was abducted by the Vice Planetary-Governor."
	"That is no surprise," Hjlod says nonchalantly. "They alvays do thing like this. It matters not to us."
	You ask her if she's worried you've been compromised - that you might be working against the Skadenga's best interests. Hjlod shakes her head. "No. Future is set. Vhat vill, vill be. You are given task to tell us vhere to go, ve go vhere you say. The rest is just noise.
	"Now," Hjlod says, "Tell me about Setstokkr. Did you find it?"
	"I found nothing definitive."
	"I think I found traces of it on Windblain."
	"I found a strange box similar to the Setstokkr on Asgard."
	"Sounds like herbalist box. Ondurdis had one long before I vas born. Gave it to liar. It not important though, not Setstokkr."
	"Sending big piece of vood through space probably not best idea Ondurdis had." Hjlod smirks. "Still, it does not matter so much what you find. Only how you felt. You saw the vorlds. Vhere should ve go?"
	"Windblain."
	"Asgard."
	You answer, "There is a nearly abandoned village called Hrithfjall next to a coastal God-Stone. Something about that place felt right. I believe that is where the Skadenga should migrate."
	Hjlod nods. "Hrithfjall sounds like good place. I vill tell Ondurdis.
	You answer, "On Asgard, there is a great market built around their God-Stone, and many new homes in need of people to fill them. The people there have lost their way and they need the Skadenga to remind them of who they were."
	Hjlod nods. "The Skadenga have alvays been guides, pathfinders. I vill tell Ondurdis.
	"Vhen you were gone, thing, or assembly, vas held. Ondurdis called in all Skadenga from all villages across Nifel. You must find transportation for 2,200 folk. That is what Onderduis told me to tell you."
	You frown and ask, "Did she provide money?"
	Hjlod shakes her head. "No. Ve could not afford it. You must go to Valhalla and convince head of Transport Union to support us." She squeezes your shoulder. "Thank you for help. For finding us new home. Ve need it. I must report now to Ondurdis. Skade be vith you." She turns and leaves.
	Outside your ship, you are met by a representative of the Transport Union. "We have been expecting you, Captain <last>." They escort you to an elevator and up to the penthouse of the tallest building in Valhalla's capital of Himinbjorg.
	Three youngish men adorned in trending clothes smile as you enter. "Ah, Captain <last>, what a pleasure to finally meet you. I am Kaiden, and these are my associates Braiden and Grayden. We are executives of the Transport Union. Obviously, we were made aware you would be coming and are looking forward toward creating a lasting and beneficial relationship with you and your... clients.
	"We've heard that you have this inspiring idea to transport an entire backwater community from one world to another," Kaiden says.
	"Really inspirational," Braiden chimes in.
	"So inspiring," Grayden adds with an opaque hand gesture you think you've seen done by celebrities.
	"At the Transport Union, we say that 'it's about the people in the transports,' which is why we're humbled and excited to offer you our support in this beautiful and inspiring humanitarian adventure of yours," Kaiden finishes. Braiden and Grayden both clap enthusiastically.
	Kaiden waits for the ovation to subside then continues with a knowing smile. "So, tell us humble servants of the people: where to transport these poor souls?"
	"That's fantastic news! The Skakenga will need transport to Windblain."
	"They need to go to Windblain."
	A hush falls over the room, and both Braiden and Grayden look to Kaiden with confused expressions on their faces.
	"Wind. Blain." Kaiden says slowly. "Wiiiindblaaain. Are you sure that is the world these simple people wish to travel to? Maybe you got an invoice mixed up? Perhaps wrote the wrong name down?" Braiden and Grayden both silently nod.
	"Windblain. Yes. I am sure."
	"Did I stutter?"
	"That changes things, then." Kaiden turns to Grayden. "Are there even incentives?"
	Grayden is busy scanning through a tablet. "No re-urbanization kickbacks, no university-study grants, not even a housing development utilization bonus. The entire thing will probably still be a tax write off, but the Census and Culture Bureau won't be happy. Plus, obviously, no finder's fee from them."
	Kaiden then looks to Braiden who shakes his head. "Public Relations for people moving to... Windblain? No one who is anyone lives on Windblain, and no one else cares about those people."
	"Yeah, we're sorry, but this isn't going to work for us." Kaiden puts on a pained face. "This just isn't the kind of project we are willing to take on at the moment." They all stand in near unison. "In the future, try not to waste our time." Kaiden says as the three of them exit the room.
	Your escort reappears. "I've been instructed to inform you that there is no one else in the Deep capable of moving the amount of people you want to move. When you're ready to be practical, contact us and we'll be more than happy to help. Now, follow me out of the building." You ride the long elevator down to the lobby and are shown the door. As you leave, another employee follows you out. As he passes you, he quietly says, "Meet me in the spaceport."
	"That's fantastic news! The Skakenga will need transport to Asgard."
	"They need to go to Asgard."
	Kaiden beams. "Brilliant. Just brilliant. I was just telling my colleagues here about what a great place Asgard would be for this tribe. The publicity will be huge. The universities will probably want to run various studies. There will be all sorts of government programs and initiatives there to help them accept the proper Deep culture and become productive citizens like the rest of us."
	Grayden, Braiden and Kaiden all start shaking each others' hands and congratulating each other on being part of something so inspirational. After their celebration is over, Kaiden turns back to you. "Our transport fleet is at your disposal. They are being refitted at Mani in the Avior system."
	The three stand up in unison. Grayden and Braiden leave, and Kaiden turns from the door. "We are so happy you stopped by today and gave us this opportunity to really give back to the needy communities out in our neighborhood." With that, they are all gone, and your escort returns to lead you out.
Travel to <destination> to prepare the Transport Union Fleet.
Mani is a quiet, empty moon with only a few hubs of human activity. The Deep Security forces, Transport Union, and other semi-governmental fleets are all serviced here.
	A Transport Union executive meets you when you touch down. "It'll take a while for the ships to be ready, Captain <last>. We're primitive-proofing them so that those ice-savages from Nifel don't accidentally kill themselves. I'll send you a message when the ships are ready. It should take about three weeks," the executive explains as he skims through a time table displayed on his tablet.
	"When the ships return covered in hay, feces, and other low-tech trash, it'll take us weeks to get them in a usable state again," he mutters before promptly turning and leaving.
Mani Refitted
Head back to <destination> and meet up with the Transport Union's Fleet.
Your inbox blinks with a new message from the Transport Union:
	The fleet is ready for its inspirational journey. Please return to Mani.
		-Jayden, Mani Administrator, Transport Union
Transport the Skadenga
Escort a fleet of freighters, refitted for carrying the Skadenga, to <destination>.
You arrive at the spaceport to see a Union Executive overseeing the final preparations of his fleet. After a moment, the last crewmembers leave his side and board their ships. He walks over to you. "The fleet is ready to launch. Your mission is to escort them to Nifel, pick up as many as they can hold from there, and drop them off on Asgard. The fleet should be able to head back to Nifel and perform the rest of the resettlement trips from there, but please, try to keep all of them in one piece."
	"Let's get this over with."
	"Don't worry, your ships are in good hands."
	"It's time to take the Skadenga home."
	The ground you are standing on shakes as the ships begin to launch.
You have reached <planet>, but not all the Transport Union ships have arrived yet. You should take off and wait for them to catch up with you.
The fleet touches down just outside the over-crowded village of Udainsakr. The landscape is filled with the gathered Skadenga.
	The Ondurdis approaches you. "Leaving is difficult, but all winters must come to end." As her people board the ships, she adds, "I will be going on first trip to Asgard, but I must rejoin my folk. Thank you for this, and we shall speak again at our new home."
For the occasion of the first of the Skadenga arrivals, Helsingor has remade itself into a mad circus. There are impromptu bands playing, random, unplanned parades, teeming crowds of excited neighbors holding up signs welcoming the Skadenga into the 31st century. There is also every kind of emergency and civil personnel available here. Firemen, police, doctors, social workers; all claiming, testing, prodding, and questioning the dazed immigrants. The Ondurdis finds you in the chaos and lets you know she wishes to see the God-Stone.
	Together, you travel to the mall, and you explain to her how the structure was built around it, using it as an accent wall to the various posh establishments within.
	Upon seeing this, the old and overwhelmed matron falls to her knees in tears. "These folk are lost," she says. "We are lost."
	The Ondurdis looks at you with her tear-wrecked face and says, "You are instrument of Skade. I saw it. But why? Why this? Why to us?"
	After that, she will say no more to you. She lifts her eyes to the sky and begins to chant wildly. A few Skadenga who have made it this far join her. Various news outlets swarm around them to record the Ondurdis' breakdown.
	You back away slowly and bump into someone. You turn to see the real-estate agent Carla Von Hausen smiling at you. "Well done, Captain <last>. I've been authorized to tell you that my superiors have deposited 850,000 credits into your account, as was agreed upon earlier."
	"Your superiors!?"
	Carla grins. "The Census and Culture Bureau. I am one of their field agents. They are most pleased with how you handled this. Helping the Skadenga reintegrate into our culture is a big win for both the Bureau and the Skadenga.
	"Anyways, I just wanted to pass that on. I have lots of work to do, thanks to you." She winks and wanders into the crowd.
	You return to your ship to count your money as you hear the Transport Union ships engage their engines to pick up another load of the Skadenga.
Check on Hjlod
Fly to <destination> to see what Hjlod and the Skadenga need from you. Make sure to have 52 bunks spare when you land.
There is a new message in your inbox from Hjlod, one of the Skadenga you helped relocate to <planet>.
	<first>, we need your help. Come to <planet>, and have space for 52 souls.
Return the Skadenga
Take the Skadenga refugees back to <destination>.
You recall that Hjlod wanted you to have 52 bunks spare for the mission. Return when you have enough room.
The Asgard spaceport hums with a thousand indecipherable conversations. It is a landscape overburdened with kinetic humanity. You spend hours wandering through the crowds for a glimpse of Hjlod. Exhausted, you are ready to throw in the towel when you feel a strong hand grab your arm. You turn to see a familiar tattooed face. Her eyes are dark and dull, her hair thin and unkept, her face creased with unhappiness.
	"Not a vord." Hjlod says as you walk toward a portion of the spaceport that is marked "Closed - Under Construction." She draws you along. It's strange to see her so changed over such a short period of time. It's only been a year since you brought her here.
	She ushers you past various barriers meant to keep a compliant public out. Finally, she leads you into a long hallway filled with the detritus of life: empty food containers, dirty blankets, other less savory items. People are also here - dirty, clumped together, wretched-looking.
	Hjlod turns back to you. "It safe to talk novhere. But ve must, so here must do."
	"What do you want from me?"
	"Who are these people?"
	Hjlod glares at you. "From you? Everything. For that is what you took from us.
	"I do not know vhy you did it. Vhy you brought us here. If Skade really let us down. Or if you ignored her," she growls. "But it does not matter. All that matters is that ve leave, and that is vhy ve need you."
	Hjlod laughs and tears run down her cheeks. "Do you not recognize us? Our great savior? Ve are the Skadenga, and this is your handivwork."
	She look away from you and continues. "The rest are not dead, no. But they have left us. Most are happy; happy to be fed, happy to be entertained, happy to forget vho they are, happy to be Skadenga in name, but not in practice. But those here cannot accept that. Ve refuse to become them.
	"Ve hide now. From the social workers, from the service providers, from the government. They can still find us, they know ve are here, but vhat they don't know is that ve can leave. That you can take us avay from here."
	Hjlod takes a deep, calming breath. "I call because you are our only hope. They vill not let us leave. They vill not let us be. They will steal our souls." She points a shaky finger at you. "Take us back to Nifel. All those who are left. Take us home. Ve know the cold vill get us eventually. But better to live on a dying vorld as Skadenga than to live here as nothing."
	"I will help you."
	"I need to think about it."
	Hjlod grimaces. "Once they know you are here, they vill collect us. Come back here in an hour. Any longer than that, and ve vill be gone." She slumps down on the ground as you exit the dark, dirty tunnel where the remaining Skadenga cling to their fleeting identity.
	Alone, you have a decision to make. You can return to help them escape this world. Or you can find Clara Von Hausen, the Census and Culture Bureau undercover agent, and report to her what is going on. She would probably pay you well for the information.
	(Return to Hjlod and help the Skadenga.)
	(Find Carla.)
	You leave Hjlod and her gang of stubborn savages behind, and return to the active parts of the thrumming spaceport. Carla's contact information, as a alleged real estate agent, is easy to find, and in a few minutes you have her on call. "Captain <last>, it is a pleasure to hear from you again. What-so-ever can I help you with?" she says with believable cheerfulness.
	You tell her about the Skadenga hiding in the spaceport and their plans to escape to Nifel.
	"Oh dear!" Carla says. "How terrible. Those poor, foolish simpletons would surely suffer on that terrible frozen world. How misguided of them. We are aware that some have struggled to assimilate. It's quite tragic, but we will handle things from here. Hopefully, we can convince them to integrate eventually. It really is for the best. I wish their old leader could have seen that before she died. It would have been easier for everyone.
	"As always, we appreciate your valuable contributions. I'll authorize a generous sum of credits to be transferred to your account. I need to get some approvals so it may take a couple of days to come through. Thank you, and buh-bye!"
	You return to Hjlod, who is surprised that you came back at all, and let her know that you going to help them.
	Hearing this, the slumped and depressed dredges in the hall stir and rise from their stupor. Hurriedly, some gather items while others race off further into the dark, unused parts of the spaceport.
	"Ve have 52 people that need off this vorld right now." Hjlod hesitates a moment, and then adds, "I know how much you like money. Ve have pooled all our savings together and will pay you <payment> for this job." She grabs a ragged duffle bag and a group gather around her. "The rest vill meet us at your ship. Ve move now."
	(Follow Hjlod.)
	Once you're back in the operational spaceport, you and your group move quickly, while drawing occasional glances from curious on-lookers. A large group of disheveled Skaldenga are waiting for you when you reach your ship. "Everyone on, quickly!" Hjlod barks at her people.
	A few moments later, they are all on board. "Asdis, headcount!" Hjlod orders. As you're waiting, two more dirty and gaunt Skadenga show up. Asdis adds them to her count and then addresses Hjlod. "Ondurdis, 48 total."
	Hjlod frowns. "It's Arnson's family isn't it? I told him he was too far."
	A commotion boils up from a few terminals down, and you see some civil servants and local police officers heading your way. Asdis is also watching. "They could still be coming."
	"It's too late for them." Hjlod shuts the hatch. "<first>, if ever ve vere friends. Take off, now."
	(Take off.)
	(Power down the ship and open the hatch.)
	You turn off your ship's ignition, pop open the hatch before Hjlod can react, and jump out. Carla Von Hausen, at least two civil service workers, and a squad of police officers arrive within seconds. Carla gives you a tight smile. "Decided to do the right thing in the end? We appreciate it."
	The police officers enter your ship and start restraining and removing the the Skadenga aboard it.
	"As always, we appreciate your help and value our continued working relationship. Expect a payment for your aid in the next couple days, after I've gotten it approved." Carla steps back to assess the Skadenga, most of which are sullen and reserved. One, however, is screaming, kicking, and biting.
	The unruly Skadenga is dragged past you, and spit splashes against your cheek. "I'll kill you, <first>. If ever ve meet again I'll kill you. You've killed me. You've killed me." Hjlod's red and tear-stained face recedes as officers drag her away.
	"Misguided girl," Carla says sadly. "We'll take it from here. Have a wonderful day, Captain <last>."
	You punch it, and your ship burns for the stars. Hjlod visibly relaxes when the thrust kicks in. She closes her tired eyes and slumps to the floor. "Thank Skade," is all she says.
Your ship touches down just outside the abandoned village of Udainskar. Silently, your passengers disembark and drift into the world they once knew and thought never to see again. The village appears to have weathered its abandonment well, and it appears the people here will not have too much trouble picking up where they left off.
	Hjlod lingers besides your ship for just a moment. "The credits are in hard-drive on your ship's console. I hope it makes you happy.
	"I do not know vhy you sent us to that place. But I am happy to be home. So go, and maybe one day I vill not hate to see you again."
You receive a message from your bank that <payment> have been deposited into your account from the Census and Culture Bureau of The Deep. The following memo is attached:
	"For heroic and selfless service to the ideals and prosperity of The Deep."
A familiar woman is waiting for you outside your ship. Although it's been more than seven years since you've last seen her, you recognize Hjlod instantly. Her eyes are brighter than when last you parted, and she has the same lopsided grin that you remember. "<first>, I saw your ship landing, and thought I vould say hello."
	You ask her how she has been, and she tells you that the small community of Skadenga have rebuilt and thrived here. That there has even been a small amount of immigration to their tiny town. That word had gotten out about their desperate escape from Asgard.
	She tells you that she forgives your past actions, and hopes you find whatever it is you are looking for among the stars. She even hugs you before she leaves.
You receive a message from the Census and Culture Bureau of the Deep. The Deep Citizen known as Hjlod has died. The cause of death appeared to be related to heavy substance abuse. The Bureau has determined that you are her closest relation and has forwarded you her entire inheritance: <payment>.
<planet> Mystery Man
Travel to <destination>, and meet up with Hroar in the spaceport.
The Transport Union employee is waiting for you near the entrance. He's wearing a wide-brimmed hat, a bulky scarf, a long coat with an up-turned collar, and sunglasses. You worry his over-the-top efforts to look nondescript will only draw more attention.
	"Can't speak long," he says. "It's too dangerous. I can't afford to be seen with you."
	You ask him what this is all about.
	"I don't agree with what the Union or the Deep are doing. I was raised in a small town where we still respected our past, and I couldn't just sit around and do nothing. So listen: with the Union against you, there's no transport company that will pick up your contract, with one exception. There's a bold renegade mineral baron on <planet>. He hates the Union, and may be willing to do what you ask."
	"How do I find him?"
	The Union employee begins moving away from you. "Name's Hroar. You can usually find him in the Red Rock Saloon, inside the Muspel Spaceport."
	The disgruntled Union employee then says, quite loudly, "I do not know where the bracelet shop is, please stop asking me!" and hurries away from you.
You've arrived at the rusty-hued world that is Muspel. You should head into the spaceport to see if you can find Hroar.
The floor of the spaceport is covered in the dirty red dust of hundreds of shuffling feet. Prospectors, miners, drillers, and all their attendant associates are intermixed here, gossiping about the latest finds, accidents, and hauls. Every person, either saturated in red earth or immaculately clean, creates a visual aid to boundaries of class, paycheck, and leadership.
	The Red Rock Saloon is located deep in the trade-craft section of the spaceport, far enough from the tourist areas to discourage anyone but the locals and those with business to enter.
	(Enter the Red Rock Saloon.)
	The doors swing open, revealing a dimly lit room filled with rough unsavory people. Piano music is playing on a cheap speaker, and the eyes of the patrons slide to get a good look at you without turning their heads. There is an expectant pause. You get the feeling they are waiting for you to either announce something or leave.
	"I'm looking for Hroar."
	For a moment nothing happens, and then a gruff voice spirals out from a dark corner. "Back here."
	You walk to the back of the saloon and find a gruff man in a long reddish-brown jacket seated with his back against the wall, and a bottle of whiskey on his otherwise empty table. "Have a seat," he says.
	After you sit, he places a gun on the table. "So the Allen boys think they can send some greenhorn killer to take me out?" Hroar barks a laugh. "Not likely." With his free hand, he takes a swig of his whiskey. "Here's what's going to happen. I am not going to kill you. Only maim you, a bit. And you tell the Allen boys that the next person they send will come back even worse. We had a deal, and I expect them to keep it."
	"You got the wrong person. I don't even know who the Allen boys are."
	"I was not sent by the Allen whoevers, and if you even touch me, I will burn this entire planet to ash."
combat rating
	Hroar breaks into uproarious laughter. People sitting the booth over, who were obviously listening, also start laughing. "Don't make threats you can't back up. Or you're gonna be a messenger in a bodybag.
	"If it wasn't the Allen boys who sent you, who do you work for? The Leshinskis? Mad Mikkel's Gang? Or maybe the Hanovarian?" Hroar pauses. "Nah, not his style. So who?"
	Hesitation flickers on Hroar's face, and he lifts his hand away from his gun. "No need to be making threats like that. We're all friends here."
	His expression shifts as he changes the subject. "I doubt the Allen boys could afford someone like you, so why exactly are you here?"
	(Explain the situation.)
	After you finish your explanation, Hroar frowns. "This is some kind of pickle you've gotten yourself into. And humanitarian or not, I ain't a man who is known for working for free. But what you heard is correct: if you need people moved and the Union won't do it, I'm your best bet in the Deep.
	"It would be something to give the Union a black eye like this. And I would generate some good will - I could probably even recoup most the costs in tax-write offs and government grants. But still..." He drifts off, then looks at you hard for a moment. "Tell you what. I'll do it, for free, if you promise to owe me a favor in the future. A favor for a favor. What'dya say?"
	"Deal."
	"What kind of favor?"
	"No deal."
	"Oh, I don't know. Something always needs doin' around here. I went from rags to riches, you know, and a journey like that leaves lots of disgruntled folk in your wake. Plus business at times requires a certain sort of captain. Whatever it will be, I'll have you know I run a legitimate - well, mostly legitimate - organization, and you won't be asked to do anything too illegal."
	He grins. "So, what do you say? Deal?"
	Hroar leans back. "Friend, listen up. If the Union won't do it, and I won't do it, then no one will. You'll either have to get those 2,200 bunks yourself, or it just ain't happenin'. I promise I won't ask anything of you too illegal. So, you sure you want to say no?"
	"I'm in. Deal."
	"I'm out. No deal."
	Hroar smirks. "Alright. You're out. Get outta my booth, and good luck on your little charity adventure." Hroar goes back to drinking his whiskey as the saloon's swinging door hits you on your way out.
	"Good. Good. People making deals. That's what society is all about, ya know? Alright, listen up: it'll take me about two weeks to get my fleet ready to transport your friends. Will take a good handful of trips too, but you only need to guide us for the first one. So, come back here then and we'll get this show on the road."
Head Back to <planet>
Head back to <destination>, and meet up with Hroar's fleet.
Your inbox blinks with a new message from Hroar on <planet>.
	'Everything is ready. Get back here.
				-Hroar
			CEO of Hardy Hroar's Haulers
			"We're an unstoppable force that has never met an immovable object!"
Evacuate Nifel
Escort Hroar's fleet to <destination> to pick up the Skadenga.
The <origin> spaceport is filled with crews doing final checks on their various haulers. You find Hroar near a cluster of captains.
	"<first>!" Hroar calls out as you near. "Glad you got here in time! Word is the Union boys are furious about this. Undermines their authority and what not; it's great." He claps you on your back. "My captains are ready. How about we get this rodeo started?"
	"Yee-haw!"
	"It's about time."
	Launch sirens blare as the crews all load up in their ships and the fleet takes off!
You have reached <planet>, but the Hardy Hroar's Hauler ships have not all arrived yet. You should take off and wait for them to catch up with you.
The reserved and limited government of Windblain pays neither you nor your fleet any heed as you make your way down to the outskirts of Hrithfjall. An empty, windswept landscape beneath gray clouds and a small group of weathered fishermen are waiting for you outside your ship.
	"I thought I'd be seeing you again," Aldfrith says at the front of his small delegation. "I dreamt that ice rained down upon the seas, and that Ran was glad of it." The creases in his face bunch up as he smiles at the memory, and then his eyes wander to the disembarking Skadenga. A moment later, The Ondurdis joins you.
	"So, you are the ice that falls from the stars?" asks Aldfrith with a hint of mirth in his eyes.
	"We are Skadenga, daughters of Skade. Mistresses of ice, mountain, and cold. But, I think now, she sends us to her sister Ran." The Ondurdis replies.
	Aldfrith nods slowly. "We are the folk of Ran; the offspring of the surf, the students of the wind, and the watchers of the storm. We welcome you and your people here. Though there are few here at present, many more of our number can be found out amongst the surging seas." He glances at the growing number of Skadenga. "If you follow me, I will escort you to our village and show you what buildings you may use. Though I fear we can not house so many."
	The Ondurdis smiles. "We thank you for your hospitality. It is good to find others who remember the old ways. Fear not, though; we are resourceful lot." Turning to you, she continues, "Meet me near the ships at makeshift spaceport in a few hours. I have much to do at moment." She and many others then follow Aldfrith and his group to the halls of Hrithfjall.
	As you watch them leave, you hear the sound of Hroar's fleet taking off and heading back to Nifel to pick up the rest of the Skadenga.
Evacuate <origin>
Escort Hroar's fleet carrying the Skadenga to <destination>.
The fleet touches down just outside the crowded village of Udainsakr. The landscape is filled with the gathered Skadenga.
	The Ondurdis approaches you. "Leaving is difficult, but all winters must come to end." She watches as her people climb aboard the fleet. "I will be taking first trip to Windblain, but I must rejoin my folk. Thank you for this, and we shall speak again at our new home."
	She leaves you with a warm smile in the wintry village.
Escort your fleet carrying the Skadenga, to <destination>.
Your fleet touches down just outside of the crowded village of Udainsakr. The landscape is filled with the gathered Skadenga.
	The Ondurdis approaches you. "Leaving is difficult, but all winters must come to end." She looks curiously at your fleet. "This I did not expect. These are not Transport Union. These are yours? You brought your own fleet to help us?"
	You smile and shrug, letting her know that sometimes you just have to do things yourself. She shakes her head. "You are full of surprises, <first>. Perhaps I'll surprise you someday as well."
	Her eyes wander to her people who are busy embarking. "I must rejoin my folk. But thank you for this, and we shall speak again at our new home." The Ondurdis leaves you with a warm smile in the wintry village.
You have reached <planet>, but your ships have not all arrived yet. You should take off and wait for them to catch up with you.
The Ondurdis bows to you when you arrive. "You have chosen good home for us."
	She has a small, wooden box with inlaid runes that looks very similar to the one you saw at Midgard. She opens the box to reveal a blue glowing stone with a single rune inscribed on it. "We call these Tears of Skade. We found few of them buried around Goddess-Stone of Nifel. They are always cold, and may be useful in warm ship." She hands you the box.
	"You honor me. Thank you."
	"A glowing stone? After all I did? Where's the money?"
	The Ondurdis shakes her head sadly. "I have given you something more valuable than any amount of money. Yet, you spurn it. There is value here, in this happy community, in our story, that is worth more than credits. Take this sacred stone, for you have earned it, and in time I hope you learn what I have failed to teach."
	She leaves you to her happy community and new home, with the strange stone and a lonely silence of your own making.
	"No, it is you who honor us. We will not forget this. Now, I told you when we met I would answer question. What would you like to know?"
	"How old are you?"
	"Who were the elves?"
	"Why were the Skadenga making amends?"
	"No. I am done here."
	The Ondurdis' eyes sparkle mischievously. "Too old. Suffice to say, my name is Eymani, and I was Pathfinder who discovered cure to Rigellian plague. As to how I am so old, or all that I have seen: I cannot say more, for it is not my story to tell."
	"Elves is broad term. Many creatures over long ages have been called elves. But, here, in Deep, I believe there are two kinds. First, there are alfar, known by many. They were ones who transported us here from Earth. I do not know why they did this, but I do know that it was not out of kindness. They are devious, and they are opaque."
	The Ondurdis lowers her voice and leans in. "But there is another kind of elf here. The Hudulfolk, the Hidden. They served makers of God-Stones. They are rare, and mostly dormant. I do not think even alfar are aware of them. They cannot be trusted, for no alien can be, but are not devious. Each Hidden is different, but all are connected to natural world. When Skadenga were new upon Nifel, we had some small dealing with them before they returned to sleep of eons."
	The Ondurdis nods slowly. "On Earth, before alfar, or elves, came to us, we had forsaken Skade. Men of Book had persuaded us to abandon old ways and embrace their new religion. We deserted our temples, forsook our trees, and thought ourselves the better for it."
	Her old face scrunches up in anger at the memory. "When we were brought to Deep, when we saw Goddess-Stone, we realized our folly. We would atone, and we would be strong." She looks up at you, her eyes bright and her face firm. "And strong we have been."
	"That is enough whispering of old secrets." She straightens up and smooths her dress. "I have much to do, and I imagine so do you. Take care, <first>. May Skade protect you." The leader of the Skadenga returns to her people on the windswept hills of the small, picturesque town of Hrithfjall.
	With the conversation concluded, you wander back toward your ship as the sun sets. You hear the hustle and bustle all around you of eager people pursuing a new and exciting life. The promise of a new beginning is almost as intoxicating as the faint hint of sea-salt on the cool breeze that ruffles your clothes.
	You wonder if you're forgetting anything - if you should find Hjlod and speak with her. But she is nowhere in sight, and you realize there will be time to see her again. You climb aboard your ship and leave these people to their new home, and you wonder: in all the bright stars and warm worlds, where might your home be?
Take the mourning Skadenga to <destination>, so that they can enact the rites of their dead. Payment is <payment>.
The familiar sight of <origin> brings up old memories. It's been more than a year since you helped the Skadenga settle <origin>, and you wonder if you should check in on them.
	(Visit Hrithfjall.)
	(Don't visit Hrithfjall.)
	It's a short journey to the outskirts of Hrithfjall. You are evidently spotted from afar, as someone is waiting for you.
	Hjlod's lopsided smile is warm and refreshing. "<first>!" She says with genuine joy. "You did not say goodbye! How can I forgive?" You hug her. You walk together along the shore toward Hrithfjall. She tells you all about the growing village - how the Skadenga are thriving here, and how they've gotten along with the Ran-Folk.
	She points to a small wooden craft up ahead. "I built her." She says with pride. "No more Ice-Crawler for Hjlod. I am sailor now. I take curious tourist out now and again. Much safer than Ice-Crawler, except when we capsize." She shrugs and grins. "Perhaps someday you'll be my tourist again. This time, I promise no accidents. Also, there are no Ice-Slugs to worry about." She pauses for a moment. "There are Shark-Kraken though. But don't worry. Hjlod will take care of you."
	You spend the afternoon in Hrithfjall, where you are treated like a guest of honor. The Ondurdis seems younger than you remember, and also appears quite fond of old Aldfrith. You eat strange fish, listen to unlikely stories, and laugh at outrageous jokes.
	As the sun sinks in the sky, you announce that you should be heading back. "Wait," the Ondurdis says. "I have task for you. If you are interested."
	"Sure; I'd do anything for you guys."
	"Hard pass."
	You explain you've already done enough for them and are needed elsewhere. They graciously accept your excuses, and you leave back to your ship.
	The Ondurdis smiles. "I knew you would accept.
	"We have folk here who have died over last year. Mostly old, a few in accidents, nothing out of ordinary. But each Skadenga carries with them life-stone, upon which they carve their memories. When Skadenga dies, these stones must be returned to their Family-Cairns by their nearest relative or closest friend. But, all our Family-Cairns are on <planet>."
	She then nods at you. "If you could transport family members of deceased to return their stones, it would mean much to everyone here. We would pay you <payment>."
	"I'll do it for free."
	You explain to them you have more pressing matters to attend to and cannot be a taxi service for their grieving. They graciously accept your excuses, and you leave back to your ship.
	The Ondurdis shakes her head. "You have already done too much for us for too little pay. We can afford to pay you, and we will."
	"The five Stone-Bearers will accompany you back to your ship. They will pay you <payment> for transport to <planet>. May Skade and Ran watch over your journey." The Ondurdis turns this into a toast, which everyone gladly participates in.
	Hjlod walks with you and your passengers back to your ship. "Be well, <first>."
The abandoned village of Udainsakr is cold, dark, and half-buried in unrelenting snow. Everything feels colder than you remember, and you wonder how long before this planet is a perpetual snowball.
	The five Skadenga you brought are polite and circumspect. Upon landing, they hand you <payment>, leave your ship and head for the Goddess-Stone of Skade with its attendant piles of stones. They each navigate their way to a specific cairn, stand there for a moment, speaking or chanting, and then place their stone upon it. Solemnly, they return to you with their task complete. There is nothing else for them to do here, and they request you take them home.
Stones of Skadenga
Return the Skadenga mourners to <destination>.
The Skadenga are gladdened to be home. Something about being on <planet> lifts their spirits, and they thank you for your help.
Take the mourning Skadenga to <stopovers>, so that they can enact the rites of their dead, then return them to <planet>. Payment is <payment>.
A group of eight Skadenga approach you. They ask if you'd be willing to take them to <destination> so that they can return their loved-one's stones to their Family-Cairns, offering <payment> for their transportation.
The eight Skadenga solmenly make their way off your ship and into the icy lands of Nifel. After a few hours they return, cold, and eager to return home to Windblaine.
The Skadenga are happy to be home. The churning seas of <planet> lift their spirits, and they head out into the sea-sweet air after paying you <payment>.
You're surprised to see the Ondurdis walking toward you.
	She nods politely before speaking. "<first>, I just wanted to thank you for ferrying our Stone-Bearers to <planet> and back. I have added this task to the job board so you can more easily assist in the future. I've also let them know they need enough money to pay for a return trip." The Ondurdis touches your shoulder, and then walks away.
The mourners take their small stones and head off to visit the cairns of their ancestors. After some time they return to your ship, happy to see the frozen-wastes of Nifel left behind.
The Skadenga hand you <payment> as they disembark and return to their lives on Windblain.
Hjlod Remembers
Hjlod wishes to meet with you again on <planet>.
Your inbox hums with a new message from <planet>:
	Dear <first>,
	I never properly thanked you for saving my life on Nifel all those years ago. If you're ever in the neighborhood, please stop by <planet>.
				Signed, Hjlod
Hjlod is waiting for you when you land. She looks healthy, strong, and happy - less gaunt and stressed then you recall her looking on Nifel when you first met. She gives you a hug. "Alvays good to see you, <first>. I have been thinking, vith all that vent on and needed to be done, I never had chance to thank you for saving me from cold."
	She reaches into her pocket and pulls out a small pouch. "I have stone that has long been in my family. I wish to give it to you. Keep you cold in hot ship, remind you of Hjlod in far-off galaxy."
	Hjlod gives you a glowing blue Tear of Skade, just like the one The Ondurdis gave you sometime before.
	"How many of these are there?" you ask.
	"Only few," she answers. "They were found around the Goddess-Stone in the early days. Passed from Skadenga mother to Skadenga daughter. I have no daughter, but I have you, so this is now yours."
	You thank her and spend the rest of the day with her, talking, laughing and walking upon the friendly earth of <planet>.
Your inbox hums with a new message from Nifel.
	I never properly thanked you for saving my life all those years ago. If you're ever in the neighborhood, please stop by <planet>.
Nifel is colder than you remember. The snow is deeper, and the ice harder. Despite this, the small recolonized settlement of Udainsakr appears to be thriving. Although it started with less than 50 Skadenga, thanks to the steady flow of pilgrims, the village population now numbers over a thousand.
	Hjlod finds you and gives you a small smile. "I am glad you came."
	She reaches into her pocket and pulls out a small wooden box, similar to the one you saw displayed at Asgard years ago. "I have been thinking," Hjlod says. "Maybe all this vas vill of Skade. Maybe you took us to Asgard to make us stronger, to make us better. It is bitter lesson, but I understand it now."
	She holds out the box. "This is tear of Skadenga. Only few ever found, and this I give to you. For saving my life, for bringing us back here, for making us stronger."
	The box opens, displaying a small, blue glowing rock. "This is Tear of Skade. Alvays makes cold. Alvays. Useful on hot ship. Keep this vith you, and know Skadenga vith you too," Hjlod says, handing it to you.
	Her eyes water, and she wipes them. "Your story is forever chiseled on our stones."
	She turns and leaves you there, holding a Tear of Skade, and shivering in Nifel's unforgiving cold.
As you wander through the spaceport, something catches your eye at a kiosk selling gifts, trinkets, and other odds and ends.
	There's an old-style book there, bound up in a ice-blue cover, titled: "The Skadenga Saga: Against All Odds, by Hjlod Hrimnirsdottir."
	(Ignore the book and move on.)
	(Pick the book up.)
	The book feels solid in your hands, and you scan through it. There are chapters about near death survival on Nifel, the subtle hostility of Asgard, the sudden death of the old Ondurdis, who you learn was named Eymani, and the triumph of Hjlod and the survivors on Nifel.
	The book feels solid in your hands, and you scan through it. There are chapters about near death survival on Nifel, corrupt Deep officials, the colorful haulers on Muspel, and the ultimate triumph on Windblain.
	The book feels solid in your hands, and you scan through it. There are chapters about near death survival on Nifel, corrupt Deep officials, and the ultimate triumph on Windblain.
	You place the book back on its stand as the attendant notices you. "It's pretty popular, that one. I hear it started this whole 'back-to-nature' primalism cult." He shrugs. "Whatever sells, ya know. Anyways, you buying?"
	You decline. You already know that story.
	You keep walking. You already know that story.
This Arrow has had numerous modifications to its hull and internal systems to make more room for outfits - mostly with combat in mind. More shields, weapons, engines, outfit space, and a turret mount nearly push this ship into classification as a light warship, and definitely make it one of the heaviest interceptors you're likely to find.
With expanded engine mounts, this Arrow seems more like an oversized missile than a ship. The beefed-up engines, a little extra outfit capacity, extra shield emitters, and thicker hull plating make this vessel a very competent interceptor.
The weapons systems on this Arrow have been enhanced to the point of competing with Lionheart's Headhunter, although it can still outrun all but the fastest ships, if things get a little too hairy.
This Megaparsec Bounder has been modified from a courier-scout into a heavy escort interceptor - currently the largest in the class. A little extra outfit space, reinforced turret mounts, a new gun port in front of the pilot, and additional shield emitters grant this former transport both fearsome speed and armament.
The previous owner of this Bounder has modified an already fast courier-scout into an even faster heavy escort interceptor with some truly enormous engines, giving it incredible maneuverability for its size.
Simultaneously the deadliest and most graceful interceptor in the galaxy, this former Bounder courier-scout has been equipped with incredibly powerful weapons for a ship of its size.
This Tarazed Falcon has been heavily modified by some very dedicated craftsmen. The hull is riddled with extra shield emitters and expanded equipment bays, adding bulk and definitely voiding the warranty.
Whoever modified this Falcon clearly valued speed above all else. Major sections of the hull have been reconfigured to accommodate the largest possible engines. If hot-rodding across the galaxy in a 1000-ton warship that handles like a Flivver is your dream, look no further.
Whoever modified this Falcon clearly believed that firepower was everything. Two additional gun ports have been integrated into the hull, and the ship's interior space has been reconfigured to accommodate nearly any set of weapons you can imagine.
By the looks of the modification that have taken place, you suspect that this ship contains no original parts. With extra shield emitters, hull plating, and outfit space, this half-millennium-old design is finding new life with its heavy modification.
One of the biggest complaints about Betelgeuse's venerable classic from younger pilots is that it's heavy and slow. A previous owner of this ship also believed so, and has fitted another engine port, in addition to setting aside more space for outfits and giving the old ship some new hull plating and shield emitters.
The Firebird is known to have one of the heaviest armaments possible for a warship of its size, and this modified version makes it even heavier. With more outfit space, giant gun ports, extra hull plating, and more shield emitters, this blast from the past will make its targets history.
The Betelgeuse Shipyards Leviathan has been in service for a long time, and captains have had some very interesting ideas about how to modify them for optimum performance. This one has had the hull surface completely stripped and replaced, with the new layout containing more shield projectors per square meter.
As if the Leviathan wasn't a terrifying enough ship already, this one has been heavily modified with special attention paid to the engine capacity, enabling it to bring its guns to bear even faster.
This Leviathan once belonged to an infamous pirate captain whose name has been lost to the ages. It's had so much custom work done to it that can hardly even be considered the same ship; the weapons capacity, in particular, has been massively increased.
After the Syndicate released their Vanguard Heavy Warship, the Manta fell somewhat out of favor due to its lack of ability to mount any anti-missile turrets. The owner of this Manta rectified that, added some extra armor plating and shield emitters, and rearranged some of the internals to yield a little more outfit space. Dry tonnage alone keeps it from being classified as a heavy warship.
A previous owner of this Manta has gone to great lengths to make sure they could bring all six gun ports to bear in a hurry, and chase down smaller warships. Style was not lost on that captain, and a forked tail yielded a little more space for shield projectors in an area that would have been destabilized by engine exhaust. If its dry tonnage were any higher, it would be classified as a heavy warship.
This Manta has undergone extensive modification, featuring extra gun ports, hull plating, and shield emitters. Whoever modified it seems to have forgotten to include dedicated space for the power systems, as they're crammed in and around everything else like an afterthought. If its dry tonnage were any higher, it would be classified as a heavy warship.
This Megaparsec Quicksilver is a bit of a hotrod, being a little faster, with extra shield projectors, hull plating, and an extra bunk. This aftermarket model also features a turret mount, perhaps in an answer to Lionheart's Headhunter. The shop that built this ship is sure to see more customers.
This Quicksilver has even more space available for engine use - and even another thruster port! It's also got a few extra shield projectors, more hull plating, and another bunk. This aftermarket model also features a turret mount, perhaps in response to Lionheart's Headhunter. Whoever modified this ship wanted to chase their prey down with vicious speed.
This Quicksilver has even bigger gun ports. It's also got a few extra shield emitters, more hull plating, and an extra bunk. Outfitted right, this aftermarket model could be even faster than a stock model, bringing a couple of extra cannons and a turret to a fight in more menacing mimicry of Lionheart's Headhunter.
Whoever modified this Raven has given more heft to an agile and elegant vessel. They've added a turret and some apparently-flimsy bulkheads over extra shield emitters and outfit space. If it weren't for the wings, the central hull would barely be recognizable as Lionheart's original under the patchwork that you expect has made an already deadly warship even more so.
Lionheart's elegant Raven has gained popularity with pirates because of its agility. This one appears to have been modified for even more of the latter at the expense of the former, and the central hull can only be recognized as a Raven because of the wings. Two more engine bays, more outfit space, additional shield emitters, and a turret make this already deadly warship appear even more frightening.
A former owner of this ship apparently didn't like the lithe Raven, and has added so much more to it - more weapons, more shields, and more outfit capacity - that the central hull can only be recognized because of the wings. Besides adding a turret, this ship has enormous gun ports, making you wonder how much more deadly you could possibly make a warship this small.
The Splinter is the largest warship produced by Megaparsec. Apparently someone wanted a bit more out of it, and has covered large sections of the hull with extra shield emitters and hull plating. Much of the stock cargo space has been converted to outfit, weapons, and engines space; coupled with a streamlining of existing internal systems, it makes this warship an agile and flexible war machine.
You're not likely to find a sub-kiloton warship faster or more deadly than this one. Large sections of the hull have been covered with extra hull plating and shield emitters. Much of the cargo space has been converted to outfit space, a great deal of which is at the rear of the ship, which features a new engine port.
This Splinter has had extensive modification to its weapons space, with two new forward hard points on either side of the bridge. Large sections of the hull are covered with extra shield emitters and hull plating. Much of the stock cargo space has been converted to space for outfits, weapons, and engines; coupled with a streamlining of existing internal systems, it makes the prospect of meeting this flexible war machine in an uninhabited system seem pretty unappealing.
Although not the most accurate or damaging of weapons, the Energy Blaster is popular because it is small enough to be installed on even the tiniest of ships. One blaster is not enough to do appreciable damage to anything larger than a fighter, but a ship equipped with several of them becomes a force to be reckoned with.
The Energy Blaster's ubiquity, low price, and stable performance have made it irresistible to tinkerers from the day it was first introduced. These blasters have been bolted together to fit within a single gun port, offering twice the damage of a single blaster at the cost of twice the heat and power consumption, along with some additional mass.
A Blaster Turret is a pair of Energy Blasters mounted on a rotating platform, allowing it to fire in any direction. Sophisticated software algorithms allow the turret to correct for a target's motion, making the Blaster Turret effective even against small, quickly moving fighters. Because it needs a special mounting point with a 360 degree field of view, not all ships are capable of being equipped with a turret.
A Quad Blaster Turret carries four guns on a single turret mount, doubling the firepower of an ordinary Blaster Turret for ships with enough space to install one and energy to drive it.
This is an Energy Blaster that has been tampered with to increase its power slightly, at the cost of reduced range and higher energy consumption. Modified Blasters also produce an extreme amount of heat when firing, increasing the risk that your ship will overheat.
An enterprising engineer, presumably having decided that the Modified Blaster's already-frightening lack of safety control was insufficient, has taken two of the weapons and shoved them together in the same gun port, crudely welded together with fervid enthusiasm. Whether or not this weapon will destroy the target before it melts its own components is anyone's guess; perhaps the intent was that the twin barrels would intimidate enemies into submission before the weapon would have to be fired.
This is a turreted version of the Modified Blaster, which is an Energy Blaster modified for greater power at the cost of higher energy consumption and heat. These turrets are popular with pirates and others who are trying to cram as much firepower into their ships as possible.
In the early part of the space era, the settlements in the region of space known as the Deep developed in relative isolation from the rest of human space. One result of that isolation is that their weapons technology mostly uses beam weapons, instead of the energy projectile weapons that are more common elsewhere.
Laser Turrets are hated by fighter pilots because it is nearly impossible to dodge them once you are within their reach. This turret carries a pair of lasers and can swivel almost instantly to fire on new targets as they approach. Laser Turrets are especially useful when mounted on slow-moving freighters to fend off packs of small pirate vessels.
The Heavy Laser is an upgraded Beam Laser with a significantly longer range and higher power. It is mostly intended for larger ships, where energy and space are plentiful, but some pilots consider a single Heavy Laser to be a worthwhile alternative to a pair of Beam Lasers, because the longer range makes up for the fact that it does not quite deal twice as much damage.
For ships with enough space to install one, the Heavy Laser Turret is a powerful weapon, equally useful for driving off fighters and for bombarding larger targets with continuous fire without having to worry about pointing your ship in the right direction.
The Electron Beam is a recent development by the Deep Sky labs, a more powerful weapon with a design similar to their perennially popular laser guns.
This turret places two of Deep Sky's recently developed electron beam weapons onto a rotating turret, providing unsurpassed accuracy and power for shooting down fast-moving targets.
Centuries ago, space battles were fought mostly with missiles, with the outcome dependent only on which ship had more shielding or ammunition. Lovelace Labs was originally founded to remedy that situation by developing a protective system that could shoot missiles out of the air, defending freighter convoys from pirates who could otherwise simply bombard them into submission without ever venturing within range of their guns.
The Heavy Anti-Missile Turret has a longer range, higher power, and shorter reload time than its smaller sibling. The only way to overcome it is by firing missiles in a cluster so that while one is being targeted, the others can get through, and as a result all missile systems on the market now default to firing in clusters if multiple copies of the same launcher are installed, rather than staggering their fire as ordinary guns do.
The Particle Cannon works by accelerating a short burst of particles to near-relativistic speeds. When mounted on a ship that can turn fast enough to keep it trained on approaching ships, it becomes a nearly unbeatable weapon, capable of destroying smaller ships before they can even approach close enough for their comparatively short-ranged weapons to be effective.
The Proton Gun started out as the Syndicate's attempt to reverse engineer and mass produce a cheap competitor for the Particle Cannon. Unfortunately, they were unable to find a reliable way to keep the beam coherent, but the resulting weapon is still popular with some captains, particularly as an anti-fighter gun.
The Syndicate Proton Turret is a relatively new product designed to compete with Deep Sky's perennially popular Laser Turrets in the anti-fighter defense market. Though cruder than its competition, the Proton Turret maintains a loyal following among captains dissatisfied with laser weapons' short range.
The Plasma Cannon fires bursts of superheated plasma. In addition to damaging your target, these plasma bursts impart a significant amount of heat, especially to a target whose shields are down.
The Plasma Turret is a pair of Plasma Cannons mounted on a turret so that they can fire in any direction. It is a fearsome weapon, but only the largest of ships have the space and the energy that it requires.
Decades after buying the rights for the Plasma Cannon, Kraz Cybernetics put this weapon on the shelves of every high-end outfitter of the Southern Rim. The repeater has so far proved immensely popular amongst any who braved testing it, and is shaping up to become an essential deterrent for anyone who flaunts their haul for pirate plunder.
	Derived from the original Plasma Cannon, this heavier version trades off its larger bursts for a much faster rate of fire. Although the smaller bursts of superheated plasma deal far less damage than its predecessor, the volume of fire results in more damage to the target overall.
A crude but impressive-looking weapon, the Flamethrower ignites your hyperspace fuel and directs a stream of it towards your adversaries. The damage it does is relatively minor, but it can be useful for causing a target that is already operating near its thermal capacity to overheat, temporarily taking it out of the fight.
A Meteor Missile serves as ammunition for the Meteor Missile Launcher. Each missile launcher has its own capacity; you cannot install missiles if you have not first purchased a pod, launcher, or storage to store them in.
The Meteor Missile Box is used to store extra ammunition for Meteor Missile Launchers.
The Meteor Missile is the cheapest and simplest homing weapon available in human space, with only rudimentary infrared tracking systems that can have trouble homing in on targets with low heat levels. True to its name, the missile reaches a very high speed to leave its target's anti-missile defenses with little time to react. The trade-off is maneuverability, so Meteor Missiles are practically useless against agile targets farther than point-blank range.
	Pods enable fighters and other light craft to carry small quantities of missiles into battle while retaining enough space for other weapons. Large ships are better off with full-size launchers.
The Sidewinder Missile is ammunition for the Sidewinder Missile Launcher; each launcher that you have installed can be armed with up to 45 of them, while pods can carry 4. You cannot install a missile without a pod or launcher to fire it from.
The Sidewinder Missile Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Sidewinder Missile Launchers.
The Sidewinder Missile is designed by Lovelace Labs, which is ironically also the designer of the Anti-Missile Turret. Rumors say that the two engineering teams at Lovelace who make the missiles and the anti-missiles are locked in furious competition with each other: the result has been generation after generation of smarter missiles and then smarter turrets to fend them off.
	Although not as powerful or cheap as the popular Meteor Missiles, Sidewinders have several advantages, including their superior maneuverability, better tracking systems, and protective casings that make them much harder for anti-missile systems to destroy.
A Javelin missile is ammunition for the Javelin Pod; without a Pod to store them in you cannot purchase or use Javelins.
The Javelin Storage Crate is used to store extra ammunition for Javelin Pods.
The Javelin Pod fires a rapid stream of unguided missiles. A Javelin Pod does far more damage than any gun of a comparable size, and has a longer range as well, but once a ship has expended all of its ammunition it must leave combat and find a planet where it can buy more, which makes Javelins less useful in protracted battles.
	The weapon's high rate of fire also makes it useful for saturating well-protected ships' anti-missile defenses so that more dangerous projectiles fired by allied ships can sneak through.
	Mini pods enable fighters and other light craft to carry small quantities of Javelins into battle while retaining enough space for other weapons. Large ships are better off with full-size pods.
Torpedoes are ammunition for the Torpedo Launcher. Each Torpedo Launcher can hold 30 of them. You cannot install torpedoes unless you have also installed a launcher to fire them from.
The Torpedo Storage Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Torpedo Launchers.
Torpedoes are the most powerful homing weapon, but they move slowly enough that fast ships can simply outrun them, making them most useful against large targets or against small ships at times when they are too distracted to dodge. Torpedo launchers are also much larger than other missile systems, so they are most often found in capital ships.
Torpedoes are the most powerful homing weapon, but they move slowly enough that fast ships can simply outrun them, making them most useful against large targets or against small ships at times when they are too distracted to dodge.
	Pods enable fighters and other light craft to carry small quantities of Torpedoes into battle while retaining enough space for other weapons. Large ships are better off with full-size launchers.
Typhoon Torpedoes are ammunition for the Typhoon Launcher. Each launcher can hold 30 of them. You cannot install Typhoon Torpedoes unless you have also installed a launcher to fire them from.
The Typhoon Storage Tube is used to store extra ammunition for Typhoon Launchers.
Typhoon Torpedoes are an improved torpedo technology; they do considerably more damage than ordinary torpedoes. However, they are also much slower, because they are intended mostly for use against large and slow-moving capital ships. As a result, sufficiently skilled pilots can often dodge around them.
	Pods enable fighters and other light craft to carry small quantities of Typhoon Torpedoes into battle while retaining enough space for other weapons. Large ships are better off with full-size launchers.
Heavy Rockets are ammunition for the Heavy Rocket Launcher. You cannot install one unless you have first installed a launcher to fire it from. Each launcher holds up to 20 rockets.
The Heavy Rocket Rack is used to store extra ammunition for Heavy Rocket Launchers.
Heavy Rockets are the most powerful missile weapon available, but at a price: instead of having a homing system, they simply fire straight forward and rely on a proximity trigger to set them off. Once triggered, however, they damage all ships within their blast radius, making them highly effective against clusters of fighters.
	Pods enable fighters and other light craft to carry small quantities of rockets into battle while retaining enough space for other weapons. Large ships are better off with full-size launchers.
It has been centuries since the last nuclear war was fought, and until very recently, most people in the galaxy assumed that that era of chaos and destruction was forever behind us...
	[Nuclear missiles are a one-shot weapon: each missile occupies a gun slot, and after it is fired, the slot it was in is left empty.]
This simple cartridge is the ammunition for the Gatling Gun, with a projectile of depleted nuclear fuel or an illuminated tracer round. Since this ammunition is primarily manufactured on pirate worlds by slave children in poor working conditions, muzzle velocity can vary by up to 30%, and tracer distribution is seldom uniform.
Bullet Boxes are used to store extra ammunition for Gatling Guns.
When Dr. Richard J. Gatling invented the rapid-fire gun bearing his name in the 19th century, he hoped that its destructiveness would lead to the end of war itself. Over a millennium later, this modern incarnation of the Gatling Gun sees action in the stars, a testament to its fundamentally robust design - and Dr. Gatling's naivete. While capable of a high fire rate, this gun needs to cool down for twice as long as it fires, and can only sustain a maximum of three seconds of continuous fire.
A young couple wants to start a new life on <destination>, and can pay you <payment> to bring them there. They are also bringing along <cargo>.
The young couple from <origin> pays you and thanks you profusely as they gather up their goods and depart. You wish them the best of luck in their new life on <planet>.
George and Samantha used to work on New Iceland before they decided to leave due to Samantha's conditions.
As you leave your ship and walk toward the cafeteria at the center of the spaceport, you notice a young couple standing near the edge of the landing area next to a cart loaded high with a jumble of boxes and furniture. Like many of the locals, they are both wearing dust masks over their mouths, and the woman is also wearing goggles.
	The couple introduces themselves as George and Samantha. As you shake hands with them, you notice that Samantha's eyes under the goggles are rimmed in red, and she keeps coughing quietly: a dry, careful cough. George explains that they came here several years ago to take jobs in the factories, but the volcanic fumes have been giving Samantha trouble ever since they arrived. They can pay <payment> for transport for themselves and <tons> of household goods to <destination>.
	They thank you for your assistance, and you give them a hand pushing the heavy cart into your cargo bay.
Pookie
Travel to <destination> and meet Pookie, who is staying with her aunt and may be scared of flying.
As you walk through the spaceport, you hear a voice behind you, saying, "Excuse me, Captain." You turn around and see a woman trying to flag you down. Her hairdo is tall and somewhat confusing; her high heels are also tall and are giving her considerable trouble as she walks towards you.
	"You look like the sort of captain I can trust," she says. "My darling Pookie has been visiting her aunt on Shroud, and it's time for her to come home, but she's not used to space travel and it scares her. I would feel so much better if you could go pick her up and bring her back here. Can you do that for me?" You can't help noticing that the jewelry she's wearing probably costs as much as a small fighter craft. This job sounds easy, and has the potential to be quite lucrative.
	(Accept.)
	(Decline.)
	You tell her that you would be glad to assist, and that you can personally assure her that no harm will come to Pookie while on board your ship. She thanks you, and gives you contact information for her aunt in the <system> system.
You have reached <planet>, but your escort with the space reserved for Pookie has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
Return Pookie the poodle to <destination>.
You called ahead while your ship was landing and agreed to meet Pookie's aunt at the spaceport. She told you, "Meet me outside the shop with the ridiculous sheepskin coats." The shop is not hard to find; the mannequins in the window look like feral sheep with overgrown wool in bad need of grooming.
	The only person standing outside the shop is a tall woman in a suit who is busy making furious marks on some sort of document with a red pen. She has a small poodle on a leash; it is busy nipping the heels of everyone who walks by.
	(Interrupt her.)
	(Wait to see if someone else shows up.)
	"Excuse me," you say. She looks up at you with a withering glare. "I'm looking for someone named Pookie."
	Eventually she looks up from the paper and sees you standing there. "Are you Captain <last>?" she asks. You nod.
	"Thank heavens," she says. "She's all yours." She hands you the leash and a large bag that appears to be full of chew toys. "Here are her toys, her food, and her... outfits. Which she hates. Feed her twice a day, or she will go berserk. Do not feed her more than twice a day, or she will throw up..."
	As she continues rattling off instructions, you ask, "Wait, Pookie is the dog?"
	"Short for 'Pocahontas,"' she explains. "Good luck, and I hope my sister pays you well." She walks away. There's nothing else you can do but bring Pookie back to your ship, where she immediately lifts her leg against the landing strut.
You have reached <planet>, but your escort carrying Pookie has not arrived! Better depart and wait for your escorts to arrive in this star system.
In the past few days, Pookie has barked incessantly and thrown up several times despite being fed perfectly on schedule, and the room you've been keeping her in will likely smell like dog urine for months. You are all too happy to return her to her owner, who pays you <payment>.
A dog...
Stray Dog
Find a home for a stray dog you picked up on <origin>. She might have been from one of the Paradise Worlds.
The weather on <origin> is unusually rough today; the sky ripples with thunder while rain whips against locals brave or desperate enough to stay outside. Through the mist, you see a building with neon lettering saying, "East Mesa Indoor Racing Complex: Bets are open!"
	(Stay dry in my ship.)
	You lean back in your seat and turn on your ship's heater. After a while, the neon sign shuts off, and the weather clears up.
	You wade through the mud as you approach the complex. At its entrance is a stout woman in a black uniform holding a shotgun. When she sees you, she looks at a list in her hand, before saying, "You're alright. Feel free to come in."
	The inside of the racing complex is packed to capacity. Around you is a swarm of elbows and shoulders, jutting into you while you worm your way through the crowd. The sounds of rancorous conversation blend in with the pounding of rain on the roof as you glimpse a sight of the main attraction: a large, fenced-off oval. White lines inside the area form racing lanes, and arranged on the far side of the track are four cages covered with cloth.
	As you reach the boundary of the track, a loud siren fills the air, causing the crowd to fall silent.
	"What's going on?"
	(Quietly observe.)
	When you try to open your mouth to speak, a hand shushes you, appearing as suddenly as it disappears.
	The siren ends, and a greasy voice takes its place. "Welcome, one and all, to the grand biweekly hound race! Before we collect your wagers, let me introduce you to our fine racing stock for the night!"
	A stagehand hops over the fence and towards the cages while the announcer continues. "Bleedbug is a veteran of the racing track. He's never taken the pole position, but perhaps this will be his lucky day!" The stagehand removes the covering of the innermost cage as a cheer rings out. The dog inside begins ferociously barking upon seeing the cacophony around him, but you can't help but notice how withered Bleedbug's body looks.
	"Our second hound is one that you're all familiar with. He's an 18-time victor of the track," the voice pauses, "even if some of his wins were only by technicality." Already, a jeer is rising in the audience. The announcer says, "It's the hound that you don't want to beat: Doom." The booing reaches a peak as the stagehand takes the cover off of the largest cage of the lineup, revealing a gargantuan hound. Doom's body is finely defined, devoid of his competitor's malnutrition. As soon as he sets his eyes on Doom, Bleedbug stops yelling and retreats to the corner of his cage to whimpering. Pleased at his reputation, Doom lets out a thunderous bark.
	(Join in with the booing.)
	(Stay silent.)
	You pump your fists into the air and join in on the jeering until you are interrupted by the announcer speaking.
	You silently observe the crowd's boos die when the announcer continues speaking.
	"Now, our other two racers for the day are all-new." A murmur of anticipation sweeps through the audience. "Our first newcomer is a fine lady. Rumored to be from the wilderness of Zenith, can everyone put their hands together for Zinc!" The cover over the third cage is taken off to reveal a creature that is clearly not a dog. Her long, gray fur and piercing, golden eyes mark her as a far more graceful and feral beast, though underneath her coat, you spot atrophied muscles. Zinc initially stands unfazed by the crowd and the other dogs, calmly observing her surroundings. When Doom spots the wolf ignoring him, he begins to bark louder and louder, until she abruptly stares at him with an inscrutable expression.
	"Our final contestant for the day is a most... unorthodox choice. The merchant who graciously donated her to us came with a most facinating story. She said that the hound comes from the Paradise Worlds, and her owner wanted the pet to have a luxury flight to her holiday home. Well, let's see if she can pay her way to victory here, folks." The audience snickers. "Now, give your best welcomes to Puny!" Puny is easily the frailest of the dogs, barely more than skin and bones. White whispers of hair clump around her head, chest, and ankles, and the bottom of her cage is wet. None of the other racers acknowledge her, but the crowd is rearing to volley a variety of curses and slurs at her, as though an actual Paradise World baron was in the cage. As you look at the poodle, you can't help but feel a strange sense of familiarity.
	You feel your back get nudged, and turn to see a woman dressed in rags holding four buckets filled with credits. The names of the racers are crudely written on each of them. "Betting is 3,000 credits," she says unusually sweetly.
	(Bet on Bleedbug.)
	(Bet on Doom.)
	(Bet on Zinc.)
	(Bet on Puny.)
	"I'll pass."
	You dig through your pockets for a credit chip to toss into the bucket, until you realize that you don't have enough money to make a bet. Impatient with your bumbling, the woman turns to take money from a person next to you.
	You toss a chip into the bucket, and the woman eagerly turns towards a person next to you.
	The woman turns to take bets from a person next to you.
	After several minutes pass, the siren sounds, and the announcer speaks again. "Once again, we at the East Mesa Racing Complex give our thanks to everyone who supports our cause by participating in betting. Now, without further ado..."
	A red light on the ceiling turns on, and the audience shouts, "Three!" A second one lights up. "Two!" A third light, this time yellow, turns on. "One!"
	A green light appears, and the crowd descends into chaos as the cage doors open.
	The first to move is Bleedbug, desperate to get as far away from Doom as possible. Doom himself has his eyes set on a different target. As soon as the doors open, he rushes over the lane lines towards Zinc and bares his teeth for a bite. Anticipating this, Zinc dodges beneath the attack, and lunges in with her mouth open. Doom responds to the threat by lowering his head and bashing into her, and the two animals are quickly locked into a brutal mess of teeth and blood. The crowd goes wild at the spectacle unfolding before them as the brawl approaches your section of the fence.
	(Continue watching.)
	(Get away.)
	Looking on, you are suddenly thrown backward when the beasts smash into the fence in front of you. Lying on the ground, you look down and see Zinc and Doom tearing into each other outside of the track, inches from your feet.
	(Get up and back away.)
	(Lie still.)
	As you lie still, Zinc is kicked on top of you, and Doom dashes in to continue the brawl. Within seconds, your skin is ripped to ribbons by two animals too deep in bloodlust to notice that another body has joined the fray. You bleed out on the floor as the crowd cheers at the slaughter of a fellow human.
	You scramble to your feet, barely dodging Zinc as she's kicked back by Doom. As the two animals howl in pain, you push your way through the onlooking crowd, hoping to escape the danger. After getting some distance away, you turn back to see Zinc and Doom continuing to go at each other's throats.
	You turn and head away from the fence. Moments later, you hear two cries of pain accompanying the sound of wood splintering. Peeking back, you see that Zinc and Doom are fighting outside the track, with the crowd raving at the sight of violence.
	(Stay and watch.)
	(Leave the building.)
	You look on at the duel, as does the rest of the building. The crowd has already taken sides, with some shouting Zinc's name and others shouting Doom's. Doom initially appears to have the upper hand, ramming himself into Zinc with impunity as she is sent sprawling. However, when Doom goes in for another tackle, Zinc dashes in and sinks her teeth into his neck. His roars of pain deminish into whimpers as blood spills readily on the complex's floor.
	Suddenly, a gunshot rings out throughout the building. The two beasts fall over as the stagehand steps forward holding a shotgun. The crowd is left in silence for a moment, until they start to jeer and boo, angered by the unsatisfying end to the duel. The stagehand responds by pointing his gun up and firing again. "That's enough!" he yells. "If you freaks want your bloodsports, then go to the gladiator stadium, or a cockfighting ring. But this establishment will not support such degeneracy!" The crowd goes quiet, but out of the corner of your eye, you see some mean-faced figures reach into their pockets.
	(Get out before it gets ugly.)
	(Stay for a while longer.)
	Continuing to look on, you hear a loud bang to your right as the stagehand gasps in pain and collapses. You turn to see that a mustached man next to you has his gun raised. Before you can react, you hear another gunshot and see a spurt of blood erupt from the man's temple. Almost instantly, the entire audience is up in arms as gunfire comes in from every direction. Acting instinctually, you duck down and crawl through the forest of legs towards the exit. Once there, you reach your hand up and push the door open before running out.
	As you turn around, you hear a volley of gunshots from behind, and decide to run out of the building, tackling the door open.
	You head towards the exit, pushing aside audience members completely captivated by the fight. Flinging the door open, you hear a gunshot from behind, and decide to run out.
	As you step outside, you are greeted by sheets of rain lashing you. The strength of the torrent almost causes you to fall backwards, but you manage to steady yourself. You take a glance back at the racing complex to find that the guard in the black uniform is missing. You turn to begin the trek back to your ship, but halfway there, you feel something touch your lower leg.
	(Turn around.)
	(Run away.)
	You begin to run, but slip in the mud and fall on your face. You roll over to come face-to-face with a dour-looking dog eyeing you. Sitting up, you recognize the poodle as Puny, who must have snuck out of the complex during all the commotion. As you get off of the ground, Puny looks up at you with puppy-dog eyes.
	You turn around and come face-to-face with a dour-looking dog looking up at you with puppy-dog eyes. Inspecting it, you recognize the poodle as Puny, who must have snuck out of the complex during all the commotion.
	(Pet her.)
	(Shoo her.)
	You crouch down and rub the soggy tufts of hair on Puny's head. As you continue, a smile creeps onto her face, beaming in spite of the soaking rain. You think about what to do with her.
	(Bring Puny aboard your ship.)
	(Shoo Puny off.)
	You pick up Puny and carry her onboard. As you dry yourselves, you think back to what the announcer said about Puny being owned by someone from the Paradise Worlds, and wonder where you might be able to drop her off.
	As you step into the cockpit, you recall the bet you put on the hound race. Looks like you won't be getting your money back.
	You wiggle your leg around to scare Puny off. She runs into the mist, vanishing from sight. You turn back and manage to reach your ship, changing into a dry set of clothes.
After landing on <origin>, you look for a way to reach as many people on the planet as possible in order to find Puny's owner. One of the receptionists at a planetary information desk says that she can put out a notice for a lost dog on a planetwide notice board, if you're able to put in a detailed enough description of Puny. You describe the poodle's appearance to the best of your abilities, and also mention how she was traveling for a vacation when she was abducted.
	When you check back with the receptionist the next morning, she tells you that nobody has approached the offer.
You put a description of Puny on a planetwide notice board. By the time the next day arrives, you've received no offers in response.
When you land on <origin>, you look for a way to reach as many people on the planet as possible in order to find Puny's owner. One of the receptionists at a planetary information desk says that she can put out a notice for a lost dog on a planetwide notice board, if you're able to put in a detailed enough description of Puny. You describe the poodle's appearance to the best of your abilities, and also mention how she was meant to be transported to a vacation location before being abducted.
You approach a receptionist to put a description of Puny on a planetwide notice board.
	The next day, you visit the receptionist. When she sees you, she tells you that one message came in response, saying that the dog was theirs. You copy the address provided and hail down a taxi.
	The address brings you to a stark white mansion upon a cliff overlooking the ocean. A path snakes down from the entrance of the mansion to a large, gold-plated gate. You bring Puny out from the taxi and ring the doorbell next to the gate. A minute later, a servant in a prim suit approaches. As soon as she sees him, Puny straightens up, holding her head high.
	"I'm <first>, and I'm here to return a missing pet."
	(Wait quietly.)
	The servant says, "Ah, you're the one with the dog. Come inside, mistress has been expecting you."
	When he spots you, the servant says, "Welcome. Come inside, mistress has been expecting you."
	The walk to the front of the house is arduous; you pass through several different stadium-sized gardens along the way, each dedicated to a different type of biome. Looking up at the sky, you see the remnants of clouds contort unnaturally around invisible pillars. As you follow the servant, he looks back at you repeatedly, checking that you're still following. You decide to look behind yourself, and see Puny eagerly following. She has somewhat recovered from her time on Freedom, but her body is still little more than skin and bone.
	By the time you reach the mansion, your skin is slightly sunburnt. The servant walks up to the oddly tall door and presses the doorbell before moving to the side, hands folded behind his back. The bell is answered by a woman with a monstrous hairdo, barely able to fit in the doorway. Puny breaks into barking as soon as she sees her, but the woman ignores the barking and says, "Walters, who is this?"
	"It's the captain who put out a description of Pookie, Madam Pemefrey," the servant replies.
	When she hears this, Pemefrey's expression changes from annoyance to elation. "Really? Oh, I can't thank enough for this, dearie. How was it rescuing her? Did you have to barter with smugglers to track her down? Chase down kidnappers to free her? Battle with warlords for her safety?"
	"It was an adventure and a half saving her."
	"It wasn't anything too hard."
	"Wait, did you say Pookie?"
	"I'm sure it was. Now, where's my darling Pookie?"
	"Oh. Well, where's my darling Pookie?"
	Pemefrey chuckles haughtily. "Of course? Why, did you not realize that the purebred you saved is none other than the great Pocahontas? Now, show me my darling."
	You pick up Puny and show her to the lady. When she makes eye contact with the poodle, her face contorts with anger. "What do you take me for, some kind of Dirt Belter?"
	"Hey, I'm from the Dirt Belt!"
	"I'm sorry?"
	She tosses her head to the side. "Then I mean it twice as much!"
	She hisses. "If you wanted to be sorry, then you should never have tried to trick me in the first place!"
	Pemefrey thrusts an accusing finger at Puny. "My dog would never be as scruffy, as ugly, as this mutt! You are trying to deceive me by picking some mongrel off of the street and claiming it as mine!"
	Walters walks up to his master, saying, "But Madam, how could this captain provide such an accurate description of how Pookie was abducted if-"
	Pemefrey snaps her head to look back at her servant. "Walters! I thought you were on my side!" She holds her hands on her chest. "It would be such a shame if you ruined our friendship like this. Why, I wouldn't be able to bear to keep you around if you betrayed me like that."
	Walters shoots a desperate glance at you while stepping back, but otherwise says nothing.
	"Now, where was I... oh, right. You. Out. Now." She claps twice, jumping Walters to attention, who beckons you and Puny back to the gate of the mansion.
	You slam the door of the taxi shut as Walters locks the gate. The return journey is somewhat somber, with even Puny wearing a frown. When you look back up from Puny, you find yourself in a far more humble region of <origin>. The grandiose manors built into impossible locations are far distant, replaced with a small suburban town that would not look out of place in the Dirt Belt were it not for the picturesque mountain ranges surrounding it.
	While this town is less wealthy than the neighboring estates, it is still unmistakably on a Paradise World, with the street lamps scrubbed and polished to a wasteful degree. As you pass through the commercial district, your eyes catch a sign that says "Antette and Co. Animal Adoption Agency."
	(Ignore the sign.)
	You tell the taxi driver to stop the car and you walk into the adoption center, leading Puny behind you.
	The inside of the agency is decorated with pale blue wallpaper. To either side of you are rows of plastic chairs, and in front of you is a receptionist looking down at his nails. When he notices you, he lazily says, "Welcome, welcome. What can I do for you."
	You point down at Puny and say, "Could you find a home for this dog?"
	The receptionist leans over the counter to look. "Wow, that's a sorry-looking puppy. What's her name?"
	"It's Puny."
	"It's Pookie."
	"I don't know."
	"That's a nice name." The receptionist steps forward to pick up the poodle before saying, "We'll make sure Pookie gets plenty of care and love. Thank you for bringing her to us."
	The receptionist winces. "That's... I'm sure we can come up with something better." He steps forward to pick up the poodle before saying, "We'll make sure she gets plenty of care and love. Thank you for bringing her to us."
	"Well, I'm sure we'll figure out a name for her eventually." The receptionist steps forward to pick up the poodle before saying, "We'll make sure she gets plenty of care and love. Thank you for bringing her to us."
	You exit the center and head back to your taxi for the rest of the trip back to the spaceport.
	You lean back in your seat as the taxi passes through the town without interruption. Not long after you find yourself back in the spaceport, with Puny still in your care. With nowhere else to go, you decide to bring Puny aboard your ship. As you lead her, she happily strolls up the landing ramp and settles into one of your bunks.
Refugees to <planet>
Joe and Maria, a young couple with a newborn baby, want to escape slavery and start a new life on <destination>.
You wander into one of several dimly lit, smoke-filled bars near your docking bay. Soon after you sit down, a pair of hooded figures stand up and begin moving toward you. They aren't carrying any visible weapons, but on a station like this one there's a good chance that everyone you meet has a concealed gun. One of them is carrying a bundle wrapped in cloth. You can't see their faces.
	(Get out of here.)
	(Wait and see what they want.)
	You've heard too many stories of kidnappings and murders on this station to be willing to take any risks. You quickly get up and leave the bar, and walk down the passageway back toward your ship. Glancing behind you, you see that the hooded figures have decided not to follow you.
	The hooded figures turn out to be a boy and a girl, both perhaps thirteen or fourteen years old. The bundle in the girl's arms is a baby. "Are you a captain?" the boy asks.
	"Yes," you say.
	"We're looking for passage off-world," he says. "My cousin works in the refineries on Arabia, and I'm hoping he can get me a job there."
	"I don't want to be involved in anything illegal. Are you in some sort of trouble with the law?"
	"Well, how much would you be able to pay me?"
	The boy grins. "No, not at all. I mean, aside from the fact that we're pirates."
	Seeing the incredulous look on your face, the girl says, "Members of a pirate gang. Crew on a pirate ship. Captains are usually older, but most of the pirate ships you see out there are crewed by kids like us. It's a hard place to grow up. We want something better for our daughter."
	They are silent for a long moment, looking down at the table. Finally, the boy says, "We're crew on a pirate ship, hardly better than slaves. The captain keeps our wages. We don't get paid anything unless they agree to let us go. But if you help us start a new life, we'll work hard and some day we'll pay you back."
	The girl adds, "You don't know what it's like for a little girl to grow up on a pirate ship. We want something better than that for our daughter."
	As you are conversing a bearded man and a rough-looking teenage boy enter the bar and begin looking around the room. "That's our captain," she says. "Please, you have to help us. There's a service tunnel that connects to the back entrance of the bar. We can escape through there."
	You've heard of these service passageways: the most dangerous part of this lawless station, dimly lit and seldom traveled, except by drug addicts and prostitutes. This whole thing might just be a ruse to lure you into one, where they can attack you without anyone interfering. "No," says the boy, "if we head for the service tunnel, they'll be sure to notice us. Let's just stay at the table until they go away."
	The baby begins to cry, softly, and she bounces it gently, trying desperately to quiet it. "Shh. Shh." For the moment, it falls silent.
	(Try the service tunnel.)
	"I'm sorry, this isn't worth risking my life for. I'm leaving."
	You stand up and leave. The men in the doorway make no effort to stop you.
	The boy stands up. "Wait ten seconds, then head to the tunnel," he says. He walks into the bathroom, which is right next to the back entrance that she pointed out. You wait for a few seconds, then stand up. "Don't run," says the girl. "Walk slowly. Pretend. You've had a bit too much to drink. We're headed out back to find some privacy." You don't dare look behind you to see if the men in the doorway are watching you.
	Finally, you reach the back entrance, and she spins the wheel to unlock it. The hinges squeal, but it opens enough for you to squeeze through. You find yourselves in a narrow corridor lit only by flickering sodium lamps. In the yellow lamplight her face and hands look pale, jaundiced. The floor of the corridor is littered with beer bottles and discarded hypodermic needles. To one side of the door are several over-stuffed trash cans. As you step into the corridor, a rat scurries away into the darkness.
	A few seconds later, watching through the open airlock, you see the boy walk out of the bathroom. He can't help stealing a quick glance towards the men in the doorway, after which he quickly ducks through the airlock and slams the door shut. "Run!" he whispers.
	You begin running down the corridor, in the direction of your ship. You pass a man, slumped over in a corner; there is no time to see if he is dead, or just sleeping. In places the lights have gone out, and it is so dim that you can barely see the floor beneath you. Your footsteps pounding on the metal decking ring terribly loud up and down the empty hallway.
	Eventually the passageway widens out into a maintenance room, full of humming equipment and large tanks. You duck behind one of them and listen for sounds of pursuit. "I think we're safe," says the boy. He walks over to another airlock door on the opposite wall and tugs it open. Light pours in, almost blinding at first. You are looking out into the rimway, the main passage in this ring of the station. Crowds of people are walking past, paying no attention to you. He glances quickly in both directions, then gestures for you to follow.
	You wait at the table, pretending that you are busy placing a drink order. The men at the door do not leave. Instead, they step into the room and begin circling around the edge of it. "What berth is your ship in?" asks the boy. You tell him. "Wait ten seconds, then follow," he says. He stands up and walks through the door. The searchers glance at him as he leaves, but they must be looking for two people together, because they ignore him.
	The searchers approach the bar and begin talking to one of the bartenders. You and the girl stand up. "Walk slowly," she hisses under her breath. "Saunter. Don't run." You put an arm around her shoulders and do your best to act like an ordinary bar patron headed home with a new friend after having a bit too much to drink. You don't dare to glance at the bar to see if you are being watched.
	Finally you reach the door. You are in the rimway, the main passage in this ring of the station. It is crowded and brightly lit. You quicken your pace slightly and begin walking toward your ship, still afraid that if you break into a run, you will attract attention. The girl keeps glancing at the shop windows that you pass by: checking the reflection to see if anyone is following you. "They're leaving the bar," she says. And then, "They're walking in the other direction. I think we're safe."
	You pass a narrow doorway, probably an entrance to one of the service tunnels. The boy is standing there, holding a gun by his side. His grim expression softens somewhat when he sees you approaching.
	You quickly make your way back to your ship. As soon as the door has closed behind you, all three of you breathe a sigh of relief. A second later, the baby begins to wail, loudly. As you show them to their bunks, they introduce themselves as Joe and Maria; the baby's name is Jesse. "I don't know how to thank you," says Maria.
	"Please don't take too long leaving the station," adds Joe. "But, I think we'll be safe here until you're ready to leave. There's no way they can search all the ships at the dock."
You land on <planet> and look for Joe and Maria, but you realize that they were in one of your escorts that has not yet entered the system. Better depart and wait for them.
Unable to find work on <origin>, Joe and Maria want to travel to <destination> to see if they can get a job there.
As soon as you have landed, Joe finds a computer terminal and tries to look up his cousin who works here, but with no success. You go with him to the company office, where after a short wait you are ushered in to meet with a foreman. After Joe introduces himself, the man says, "I'm really sorry to tell you this, but Leroy died in a refinery fire several months ago."
	Joe is crestfallen. After a long silence, you say, "Sir, do you have any work available for Joe? He and his family were hoping to be able to put down roots here."
	"I'm sorry," says the foreman, "but we've had a ton of immigrants recently. The waiting list for new jobs is about five months long. They could stay here and hope for the best, but if they need work right away, they would be better off going to one of the Syndicate worlds, like <planet>."
	(Volunteer to take them to <planet>.)
	(Leave them here and hope for the best.)
	Despite his shock and grief, Joe is quite grateful. "You know we can't pay you, right?"
	"Don't worry about it," you say. You return to your ship and tell the bad news to Maria.
You help Joe and Maria, and their daughter Jesse, to carry their few belongings down to the immigration desk, where a clerk lists the job openings available and asks them each to fill out a skill survey. Maria says, "Captain <last>, I don't know how to thank you, but I promise you that once we've got steady jobs, we'll save up and pay you our fare for transporting us here."
	You wish them the best of luck, and return to your ship.
When you land, you are surprised to find a message waiting for you from Joe and Maria, the young couple you transported from Smuggler's Den to Millrace a year ago to help them and their baby escape their lives as pirate crew members. "Dear Captain <last>," they write, "we promised you we would save up enough money to pay you back for transporting us. Attached is <payment>. Thank you for giving us a chance at a new life." They've also enclosed a picture of themselves and their baby Jesse, who is now more than a year old.
As you're coming in for a landing, you realize that Millrace is where Joe and Maria live, the couple you transported from Smuggler's Den. They recently wrote to you thanking you for helping them to begin a new life. Do you want to stop by and see how they are doing?
	You contact Joe and Maria and they say they would definitely enjoy seeing you. On your way to the workers' barracks where they live, you stop by a small store and buy some chocolate, plus bread and fresh fruit and some canned goods you think they would be able to use. They thank you for coming and welcome you into their home. Jesse is continuing to grow up, and they have another baby too, now. Joe says the work in the factories is exhausting, and the hours are long, but they never need to worry about where their next meal will come from, or what they'll be required to do to earn it. You leave feeling very glad that you have been able to make such a difference in someone's life.
Two teenagers who were under the employs of pirates, the couple wanted your aid with an escape from their lives and after a time have informed you that they are now living in relative peace where you left them on Millrace.
Expedition to Hope
Transport a team of <bunks> scientists to the abandoned world of <planet>, where they will be placing <tons> of meteorological equipment. Payment will be 80,000 credits.
A group of <bunks> scientists approaches you and asks if you would be willing to take them and <cargo> to the abandoned planet of Hope, and then back home from there. "The transport we'd arranged for bailed out on us at the last moment," says their leader, a middle-aged man wearing thick-rimmed glasses. "We have 80,000 credits allocated for payment."
	"What sort of research are you doing?"
	"Sorry, I don't have space for you."
	"You probably know about the supervolcano that forced the evacuation of Hope some decades ago," he says. "My family lived on Hope back then. We want to measure how much ash is still in the air, to see how long it will be before the glaciers recede and the planet is habitable again."
	"That sounds like a worthy cause. I'd be glad to transport you."
	"Sorry, I'm not going to be headed in that direction any time soon."
	"Thank you," he says. You help them to load their meteorological equipment onto your ship.
You enter the atmosphere of <planet>, but realize that the scientists and their equipment were on one of your escorts who hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for them.
Transport the team of <bunks> scientists home to <destination>, to receive the second half of payment.
You fly around the planet to several different sites that the scientists have identified as good places for their equipment. They also make some deep radar scans of the glaciers. "That's my old house, down there," says one of the scientists, pointing to the radar picture of one of the buried villages. "Under thirty meters of ice, now."
	The lead scientist hands you forty thousand credits, and says, "Here's the first part of your payment. Now we need to get home to <planet>. I'll pay you the rest once we get there."
You land on <planet>, but realize that the scientists and their equipment were on one of your escorts who hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for them.
You drop the team of scientists off on <planet>. They thank you for helping them out, and pay you <payment>.
Transport Family
Transport a family of <bunks>, as well as <cargo>, to <destination>, where they hope that steady work will be easier to come by. Payment is <payment>.
In one of the corners of the spaceport, you meet a family with two kids, and a pile of trunks and boxes spread out next to them. They tell you that they are trying to book passage to <planet>. "Work has gotten way too hard to come by here," explains the father. "I've had seven different jobs in the past year, and none of them lasted more than a month. So we thought we'd try our luck on a Syndicate world. We can pay you <payment> for the trouble."
You drop off the family from <origin>, and wish them the best of luck on <planet>. They seem optimistic, and their kids are still quite excited about having taken their first ever space journey. You're sure that they will be remembering this trip for years to come. Their parents thank you, and pay you <payment>.
Transport Worker
This young man is headed to the factories on <destination>. He says he wants to save enough money to be able to ask his "true love" to marry him.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a young man approaches you and says, "Excuse me, Captain. Is there any chance you're traveling towards the Core?" He's probably in his late teens, barely more than a kid.
	"I'm sure I could work that into my plans. Where are you headed?"
	"You're traveling all by yourself? You aren't in any trouble, I hope?"
	"Sorry, I don't expect to be headed that way any time soon."
	"Well, here's the story," he says. "My girlfriend's father won't let us get married until I have some money saved up. They say there's plenty of jobs to be had on <planet>. So I'm headed there to put down roots and get myself established, then in a year or two she can come and join me. Don't worry, I have <payment> that I can give to you."
	"I'd be glad to take you there."
	"Are you sure about that? I've heard some bad things about the Syndicate's company towns."
	"Do you really think she's going to wait around for you?"
	"Me too," he says, "but it's a lifetime of steady work, and you know how hard that is to come by in this part of the galaxy. Can you help me out?"
	"She'll be true to me," he says, with absolute confidence.
	"Okay, I'll take you to <planet>."
	"Sorry, I'm not headed in that direction."
	"Thank you, Captain," he says, shaking your hand. You bring him aboard your ship and show him to one of the empty bunks.
You drop off the young man from <origin> who is hoping to find work and save enough money for his girlfriend to join him. "Good luck," you say. "Be wise. Don't let yourself get into debt." He thanks you, and pays you <payment>.
Farming Family
Transport this family of <bunks> farmers and <tons> of livestock, to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
On the dirt near your landing pad is parked a large wagon, hitched to a draft horse and loaded down with furniture and various farming implements. A family is gathered in the shade of the cart, and several goats and sheep are tied up behind it.
	(Approach the farmers.)
	(I'm not interested in carrying livestock in my shiny new space ship.)
	The farmers introduce themselves as Jim and Annette Patterson; their kids are Erin, Kyle, and Sarah. "Any chance you've got space for <tons> of livestock?" asks Jim. "The droughts the last few years have been fierce, and we're hoping to start a new homestead on <planet>. We have <payment> saved for payment."
	"Sure, I'd be glad to take you there."
	"Sorry, that's way too far from here."
You drop off the Pattersons, the farm family from <origin>, and help them to unload their wagon and cattle from your cargo hold. They thank you, and Jim pays you <payment>.
An unusual family who needed you to make a very unconventional trip with a sizeable number of farm animals that had to be kept happy in an enclosed area of your spaceship.
Star Research
Fly through the <waypoints> system with a team of <bunks> scientists and <cargo>, then return them to <destination>.
A group of <bunks> scientists approaches you and asks if you will be headed to the Rim any time soon. "We're doing research on Wolf-Rayet stars," they explain, "and we're hoping to find a captain who can do a fly-by of <waypoints>." Scientific research in the Deep is notoriously well-funded, so they will probably pay you quite well.
The team of scientists unpacks their equipment and takes some measurements of the star. Before long they inform you they are ready to go home.
The team of scientists thanks you for bringing them to <waypoints> and back, and pays you <payment>. They seem eager to get back to their lab and start analyzing their measurements.
Transport band to <planet>
Give the band "There Might Be Riots" a ride to <destination>.
A woman in a well-tailored suit approaches you. "Captain <last>?" You nod. "Are you available for a transport job?" she asks.
	"Not right now."
	"My name is Becca," she says. "I'm a stage manager for a band, and the transport we had under contract bailed out on us. Any chance you could take <fare> and <tons> of cargo to <destination>? Given the circumstances, we can pay quite well."
	"Sorry, I'm not headed in that direction right now."
	"Great," she says, "I'll tell the boys to start loading their gear into your ship." About a half an hour later the road crew begins carting instruments and amplifiers into your cargo hold. Soon after that, you hear the roar of a crowd in the distance and another group of men comes running into your ship. "We're with the band," they say. "Quick, shut the hatch." Half a minute later, a mob of people has surrounded your ship and a few of them are even climbing on top of it. It takes you a second to realize they're not angry or bent on destruction - they're just a group of crazy fans.
	"Happens everywhere we go," says one of the musicians, calmly, as he watches a video feed of the mob on one of your monitors. He tells you that he's Ulrich, the lead singer. Then he introduces the rest of the singers and musicians.
	"Pleased to meet you all. What's the name of your band?"
	"Oh," Ulrich says, "we call ourselves, 'There Might Be Riots.'"
	Eventually, the spaceport police arrive and disperse the crowd, and the band settles in for their trip to <destination>.
You drop off the band "There Might Be Riots" on <destination>. Along the way, you got to hear some of their music, which is mostly characterized by frenzied instrumentals, a very energetic brass section, and bizarre lyrics. One day while you were in transit, they nearly drove you insane by playing their catchy but nonsensical song "Henhouse In Your Soul" for four hours straight, but other than that they have been good passengers, and their stage manager gives you an incredibly generous payment of <payment>.
	"We've already got a gig lined up for tonight," says Ulrich. "Want to come? We'll give you free tickets." Given how well they just paid you, it might be worth going just to build a relationship with the band, even if not for the music itself.
	"Sorry, I've got other things to do."
	The band is even louder in concert than they were when practicing in the confines of your ship. About thirty minutes into the concert, the energy of the crowd and the surreal lyrics finally begin to soak in, and rather than seeming meaningless their music feels fraught with meaning that hovers just beyond your grasp.
	Finally the band announces that their last song will be "Sad Archie." You've never heard of it, but the fans scream in approval. It's a slow, ballad-like song about a man named Archie who lives forever and is sad because the friends he makes all grow old and die. Archie has a pet dragon, and he builds a beautiful house for the dragon, but the dragon dies young. Archie is so sad seeing the dragon's house empty and gathering dust that he rents it out to some friends, but they fight with each other and trash the place. The story makes no sense, but some of the fans are wiping away tears as the song ends.
	Becca, who is sitting next to you in the VIP section, says, "We learned years ago that we need to end every concert with a sad song. Otherwise the fans leave with way too much energy and start destroying public property."
	The concert ends, and you say goodbye to the band. They say they'll be in touch if they ever need a ride again.
As you walk through the spaceport, you see a large crowd gathered outside a small pub, and hear the unmistakable music of There Might Be Riots from inside. The concert seems to be just winding down. Do you want to wait around and say hello to them?
	(Okay.)
	"<first>!" says Ulrich, when they see you. "What luck! We're doing a concert tonight on landing pad ninety-four, part of our 'Trouble on the Tarmac Tour.' We're going to need a lift to <planet> right after the concert. Or possibly in the middle of it. Can you help us out?"
	"Okay. But why the hurry to leave?"
	"Sorry, I've got other plans."
	"Please," he says, "I'm serious. You'll be saving our skins. Whatever else you've got, it's not this important."
	"Okay, I'll do it. Why's it so urgent?"
	"Sorry, I really don't want to work with you guys anymore."
	"You'll see," he says. "You should park your ship right behind us in case the natives get restless and we need to skedaddle."
	With some trepidation, you sit by the hatchway of your ship and watch as the band sets up directly outside it and the concert begins. Nothing seems out of the ordinary until the band introduces a song called "Gluttony," and you can feel a sudden tension fill the air. The Syndicate security guards, who until now have been standing at the periphery of the landing pad, begin to disperse themselves throughout the crowd.
	It's a song about a man who will die if he ever stops eating, so he eats more and more and grows bigger and bigger. A second after you realize that the whole thing is a thinly veiled critique of the Syndicate, a group up front unrolls a banner that reads "End Wage Slavery!" and begins shouting and chanting slogans. As the band plays on, there is some sort of scuffle at the back of the crowd, and then you see stun guns begin to flash, and rising plumes of what you would guess is tear gas.
	As the demonstrators are driven away, a group of guards approach you. "What is your connection to these musicians?" they ask.
	"I'm just their transport. They're paying me to carry them to their next destination."
	"They're friends of mine. Why? They haven't done anything illegal, that I can see."
	"Be careful what friends you choose," says the guard, "or you might find that no one in this sector will offer you any jobs. Now, get them packed up and get out of here." You have no choice but to leave the planet immediately...
	"Then I suggest you do your job and transport them. Immediately." The guards leave. As soon as the band is packed up, you leave the planet...
As generous as before, the band pays you generously: <payment>. "Where will you be going next, from here?" you ask.
	"Who knows," says Ulrich. "Our music has taken us throughout human space, and beyond."
	"What do you mean, 'beyond' human space?"
	"Well, I'll look forward to the next time we meet."
	Ulrich launches into a story. "Years ago when the band was young and we had a month off in between gigs, we found an old gray merchant captain with a glass eye and asked him to transport us to one of the Paradise worlds for an extended 'drug vacation,' if you know what I mean. He said, 'Boys, why don't you leave the drugs behind, and I'll take you on a real mind-altering trip,' and a few days later we were playing a concert on this world where the people were giant squirrels. They loved our music, too. Of course, these days that story isn't half as interesting as it once was."
	Ulrich launches into a story. "Years ago when the band was young and we had a month off in between gigs, we found an old gray merchant captain with a glass eye and asked him to transport us to one of the Paradise worlds for an extended 'drug vacation,' if you know what I mean. He said, 'Boys, why don't you leave the drugs behind, and I'll take you on a real mind-altering trip,' and a few days later we were playing a concert on this world where the people were giant squirrels. They loved our music, too. Never did find anyone who could take us back there, though."
	You're tempted to laugh, but he sounds serious. "Well," you say, "if I ever find a planet of intelligent squirrels, I'll be glad to take you guys there." You help them to unload their stuff, and say goodbye for now.
	"It sounds like you were visiting Hai space," you say, and you describe the aliens who live beyond the wormhole. "Yeah, that would be them," says Ulrich. "I'd love to go back there some time, but for now we have commitments closer to home." You help them to unload their stuff, and say goodbye for now.
	"Well, now that they're not hiding away anymore, seems like you might have a new market you could go back to," you say.
	"I'd love to go back there some time," says Ulrich, "but for now we have commitments closer to home." You help them to unload their stuff, and say goodbye for now.
As you walk through the spaceport, you see a distinctive group of people lugging a collection of instruments: the band There Might Be Riots. Would you like to see if there is anything more you can do for them?
	They're very happy to see you. "You always seem to have amazing timing," says Ulrich. "We were just wondering who could transport us to a... gig of sorts... up north, and then you come along. Any chance you could take us to <destination>?"
	You've heard of that planet. "The weapons testing world for Lovelace Labs?" you ask. "I'm surprised you'd be able to find a big audience there."
	"Oh, we'll have an audience, all right," he says. "We've just put out a new album called 'Songs for the End of Civilization.' A war protest album. We want to film ourselves playing a concert right in the middle of the missile testing range. Of course, we'll probably end up running out of there with Republic Intelligence nipping at our heels. What do you say?"
	"Sorry, that's further than I'm willing to go for you guys."
	"Sounds like a worthy cause. Count me in!"
	"You're going to do a concert on ground that could be littered with unexploded ordnance?"
	"Yeah. What an adventure!" he says. "Come on, it will be worth it."
	"Are you sure?" he asks. "We'll pay you with more than just money. Do this for us, and I'll share a story with you that very few have heard."
	"Sorry, but it's still a 'no.'"
	"Okay, I'm intrigued. But it still sounds risky."
	"Great," he says. "Now, the only question is where we'll go afterwards until the fuss dies down. Say, did you ever find that planet of squirrel people? We'd love to go back there."
	"Yes," you say, "they're called the Hai. They live in a whole big region to the north."
	"Great," he says. "Now, the only question is where we'll go afterwards until the fuss dies down."
	"Didn't you say the Hai really liked you before?" you ask. "I think now might be the perfect opportunity to go back to the Hai."
	"Aww yeah!" he exlaims, "those squirrel people were rad cool. We go thumb our noses at the military industrial complex, then you take us to stay with the peaceful squirrel people where the government won't bother us."
	Once more, they begin loading their stuff onto your ship, while you chart a course to <destination>.
	"Great," he says. "Now, the only question is where we'll go afterwards until the fuss dies down. I was thinking it'd be a great chance for our band to reconnect with the squirrel people - what did you call them?"
	"The Hai," you say.
	"Excellent," he says. "We go thumb our noses at the military-industrial complex, then you take us to stay with the peaceful squirrel people where the government won't bother us."
Avoid the Navy combat drones and give the band "There Might Be Riots" a ride to <destination>.
You bring your ship to a gingerly landing in a section of the testing range that doesn't look too pockmarked with craters, and the band begins setting up their equipment and video cameras. "This is great," says Ulrich. "We'll be broadcasting live over the Net. It's time people started asking why the government thinks it needs all these weapons of war."
	The band plays through about a third of their set without any evidence that the locals even know you are here, which is surprising for such a tightly secured planet. Then, right in the middle of a particularly crunchy anti-war song, your long-range radar picks up something: a large number of ships approaching from a hundred kilometers away.
	"Guys, I think we should get out of here."
	"We've got ships incoming. Could be trouble."
	The band stops playing. Ulrich turns to the cameras and says, "For all our fans out there, we'll be back after a brief intermission." Then he walks over to you and says, "What is it?"
	"Ships incoming," you say.
	The band stops playing. Ulrich turns to the cameras and says, "For all our fans out there, we'll be back after a brief intermission." Then he walks over to you.
	"Did they hail us?" asks Ulrich.
	"No," you say.
	He swears, then shouts to the rest of the band, "Gentlemen, time to pack it up posthaste, before we get turned into a tragic industrial accident!"
	The band has just packed the last of their equipment away when the ships come into view. It's a swarm of unpiloted combat drones, and they seem to be engaged in mock combat with each other. But, their flight path is taking them straight in your direction. You power up your shields just as the first of the drones decide that your ship is a valid target for their lasers...
You drop off There Might Be Riots on Allhome. Ulrich is looking around the spaceport in wide-eyed excitement. "This is it, guys!" he says. "We're back in the land of the peaceful squirrels. Captain <last>, I don't know how to thank you, but here's a start." He hands you <payment>.
	As the rest of the band begins unloading their things, Ulrich adds speaking more quietly, "And, in good minstrel fashion I will pay you not just with money, but with a story.
	"Back when the fame first became too much for me, I rented a shuttlecraft under an assumed name and went tooling around the galaxy just to get away from it all. I found some cloudy star out along the Rim, parked my ship where no one would bother me, shut down everything but life support, and just sat there meditating and enjoying the silence for two or three days.
	"Then suddenly clear as day I heard a voice say, 'Are you okay? Do you need anything?' I was so shocked that without even thinking I said, 'I'm fine. How about you?' And the voice told me he was sad. Sad, because that part of space used to be the home of another species, and now they're all dead. He said we humans built our cities on the graveyards of a great civilization and didn't even know it. And if we didn't stop fighting each other, our species would die off too.
	"That's when the band started to speak out against war."
	"Do you think the voice was real, or just in your head?"
	"It sounds like a good warning. I'll try to take it to heart."
	"It was in my head," he says, "And it was real. Very real. When it spoke I felt like the whole galaxy had just tipped sideways, or like I'd just stepped too close to the edge of a cliff and got vertigo. I've imagined some crazy things, but I tell you, this I did not imagine."
	You wish him the best of luck in Hai space, and he heads off into the spaceport with the rest of the band.
	"Then best of luck to you," he says, and he heads off into the spaceport with the rest of the band.
Drug Running
Bring a shipment of <cargo> to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>. If you are caught with this cargo, you may be fined.
In addition to the fine, the illegal drugs are confiscated from your cargo hold.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man pulls you aside and asks if you would like to help transport <tons> of "recreational pharmaceuticals" to <planet> for <payment>. (This sounds like an illegal mission, so you'll need to avoid getting scanned or landing on planets with high security.)
Some disreputable-looking locals unload the illegal drugs from your cargo bay, and hand you your payment of <payment>.
When you walk into the local bar, a man sitting in the corner waves you over and says in a hushed voice, "Captain, we've got <tons> of the good stuff that needs to get to <planet>. I promise you this will be a very lucrative operation. What do you say?"
Immediately after you land, some workers show up to unload the "stuff." They give you <payment>.
A well-dressed woman approaches you as you are walking through the spaceport and asks quietly if you would be willing to help facilitate the transport of some "naughty substances" to a certain individual on <planet> for <payment>.
You hand off the illegal "substances" to your contact on <planet>, who pays you <payment>.
During your brief stop on <origin>, it occurs to you that it really is a shame to have a cargo hold full of the finest of illegal drugs, and not to take even a small sample for yourself. There is no way the loss of a tiny bit of drugs could be noticed. Give it a try?
	(No, I never touch that stuff.)
	(Sure, sounds like fun!)
	The room begins to spin, and strange things happen...
Shady passenger transport
Discreetly transport a passenger to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>. If you are caught with him, you may be fined.
Your passenger turns out to be a small-time wanted criminal. As he is hauled off in chains, you vehemently protest that you knew nothing of his shady history. You wind up quite a bit poorer through a combination of fines and bribes (the breakdown remains somewhat unclear).
While having a drink at one of the spaceport's bars, a somewhat scruffy-looking man in a dark cloak pulls you aside and offers <payment> for discreet, no-questions-asked passage to <destination>, which is quite close by. This could be a quick and lucrative job. (It also sounds illegal, so you'll need to avoid getting scanned or landing on planets with high security.)
Your mysterious passenger has spoken hardly a word during the entire trip. As soon as you land, he hands you your payment of <payment> and disappears into a crowd.
Discreetly transport two passengers to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>. If you are caught with them, you may be fined.
Your passengers turn out to be wanted criminals. As they are hauled off in chains, you vehemently protest that you knew nothing of their shady histories. You wind up quite a bit poorer through a combination of fines and bribes (the breakdown remains somewhat unclear).
As you are walking through the spaceport, two men in nondescript clothing appear out of nowhere and offer <payment> for discreet, no-questions-asked passage to <destination>. Though they say very little, you get the distinct sense that their presence on this planet and motivation to be elsewhere may not be entirely legal.
You bundle the men onto your ship before anyone sees them. As you're helping unpack their luggage, one of them casually mentions that they may have attracted the attention of some bounty hunters, and would prefer not to be captured. You should probably avoid being scanned, too.
Your passengers depart after paying you the agreed-upon sum of <payment>, off to make new lives for themselves doing who-knows-what.
Discreetly transport <bunks> passengers to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>. If you are caught with them, the legal consequences may be severe.
It's difficult to feign ignorance of your passengers' background during your questioning. You wind up having to pay a small fortune in fines and bribes to keep yourself from being charged as an accomplice to some very serious-sounding crimes.
A group of <bunks> fearsome-looking young men and women brazenly walk up to you in broad daylight, explaining that they're in some legal trouble and need to get to <destination> as quickly as possible. They offer <payment> to secure discreet passage. You must be getting quite a reputation in certain circles. Transporting them might be very dangerous. On the other hand, they're offering a small fortune...
The mercenaries (or gang members, or fleeing bank robbers, or who knows what else) make themselves at home on your ship, and begin drinking and arguing. You wonder what you've gotten yourself into...
During the voyage, you've come to understand that your passengers are mercenaries whose latest exploits put them on the wrong side of the law. They pay you the agreed-upon sum of <payment> and disappear into a crowd, no doubt off to cause chaos and mayhem for some unsuspecting victims. Oh well, not your problem...
You'd begun to doubt the wisdom of your decision to transport this band of cutthroats from the moment you agreed to it, but the money was too good to resist. You settle into the captain's chair and prepare for the voyage ahead.
	But something feels wrong. You expect to hear the sounds of drunkenness and violence coming from the passenger compartment, but instead a deathly silence fills the air. You whirl around in your seat and come face-to-face with the entire gang. They're all armed. And their weapons are pointing at you. Your heart sinks.
	Their leader appears to be a lithe and dangerous-looking young woman who holds an enormous shotgun that's almost as big as her. "Looks like we boarded the ship of fools, and here's the biggest one!" she says mockingly. "We didn't have a credit to our names, but soon we'll own your ship. Hand over the access codes and we'll let you live."
	(Negotiate.)
	(Surrender.)
	That turns out to be a really bad decision. It's also your last. A truly excessive barrage of projectiles ends your life.
	"You don't want my ship, you want my money," you stammer, stalling for time while you try to think of a way out of this situation. "This ship is registered to me; nobody would believe that you came across it honestly. You want a fresh start in an anonymous ship. I'll give you 4 million credits, and you can buy a Modified Argosy or some other vessel better suited to your line of work."
	The gang leader snorts derisively. "Why don't we just kill you and hotwire this ship? That sounds more fun."
	(Offer more money.)
	You up your bribe to 8 million credits. It's enough. A sigh of relief escapes your lips as everyone lowers their weapons.
	You arrange for a merchant captain to transport the renegades down to the surface, along with a password-protected credit chip. Once the airlock closes, you send them the password. At least you have escaped with your life and your ship.
You go to the security station and bitterly hand over the ship's access codes.
	"Smart move," the leader says. "Or was it? Now we don't need you alive for anything, do we?"
	She fires her shotgun into you from behind, and for a brief moment, you are treated to the sight of your internal organs splattered all over the console. It's the last thing you ever see.
Somehow, miraculously, you manage to reach your gun before she fires. Perhaps it's the sheer brazenness of it - no one would expect someone staring down the barrels of half a dozen guns to actually draw against them. Nevertheless, you do, and it works.
	Your first shot finds its mark, and the gang leader crumples to the floor. The other thugs shriek in alarm and begin to spray gunfire in all directions, but it's ineffective panic fire. Taking cover behind the armored captain's chair, you dispatch two more with well-aimed shots.
	The remaining goons attempt to flee, but your fingers find the button controlling the bridge door and it slams down before they can escape. They throw down their weapons and surrender. You toss them into the brig and decide that it might be a hoot to take them to their original destination as prisoners instead of passengers, and see if you can get a bounty for bringing them in.
You hand off your prisoners to the planetary authorities who gratefully take them into custody. It turns out that they were wanted, and there's a substantial bounty. You find yourself richer to the tune of <payment>.
Shady passenger transport big payment
You receive a message informing you of an unusually large transaction: 8 million credits. The gang of cutthroats must have withdrawn the money you bought them off with. You are now free to continue your career - poorer, but hopefully wiser.
Participate in the medical evacuation of miners injured on <planet> by bringing <bunks> emergency workers and <cargo> to the planet.
Rescue Miners
You've just sat down in the spaceport bar and ordered a drink when someone in uniform runs into the room and shouts, "There's been a mine explosion on <planet>! We need all available ships to carry relief workers and supplies and to evacuate the injured to a world where there are better medical facilities."
Participate in the medical evacuation of miners injured on <origin> by bringing <bunks> passengers to the medical facilities on <destination>.
You drop off the medical personnel on <origin>. There are nearly a hundred injured miners waiting for medical evacuation to <planet>. Do you volunteer to carry some of them?
You drop off the injured miners at one of the medical facilities on <planet> that has agreed to care for the survivors. It's a somewhat chaotic process, but eventually someone thanks you for your help and pays you <payment>.
As you are walking through the spaceport, a man approaches you and says, "Excuse me, Captain. I took on a rush delivery of <cargo> to <planet>, but my ship needs repairs and there's no way I can make it there before <day>. Can you take this job for me? The payment for the job is <payment>."
A local
A man
A resident of <origin>
A stranger
A woman
appears from seemingly nowhere to ask,
approaches you and says,
flags you down and asks,
walks up to you and asks,
stops you and asks,
Captain,
Excuse me, Captain.
Sorry to interrupt, but
Hey there, Captain.
I have a small package that needs to get to <planet> by <day>.
I'm trying to get a package to a relative on <planet> by <day>.
I need to get this package to one of my clients on <planet> by <day>.
I'm trying to get this package to <planet> before <day>.
Are you able to carry it for me?
Can you carry it for me?
Could you take it there?
Can you help me out with this?
 I'll give you <payment> for the effort.
 I'm willing to pay you <payment>.
 I can afford to give you <payment> for it.
Package to <planet>
Deliver a package weighing <tons> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off the package and collect your payment of <payment>.
Papers to <planet>
Deliver <tons> of legal papers to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
A woman in a suit walks up to you and says, "Pardon me, Captain. I represent a recently deceased client here on <origin> whose legal papers need to be delivered to his next of kin on <destination>. Would you be willing to do some courier work? The papers must be delivered by <day>, and you will be paid <payment>."
You drop off the legal papers and collect your payment of <payment>.
Lizard to <planet>
Deliver an exotic pet (weighing <tons>) to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
A man wearing a very complicated hat waves to you from the other side of a landing pad. "Yoo-hoo, Captain!" he says. "I have a courier mission for you if you're interested."
	(Find out what he wants.)
	(Ignore him.)
	"My name is Alphonse," he says. "I am a breeder of exotic lizards. A new client on <planet> has just ordered one, and will pay you <payment> to transport it. Naturally, being a live animal, it's a rush delivery; it needs to be done by <day>. What do you say?"
	"Sorry, I'm not interested in that sort of work."
	"Excellent!" he says. "Come, let me introduce you to your cargo." He leads you to a supply shed where an enormous lizard, taller than you and probably weighing several tons, is being held in a cage that looks far too flimsy for it. "I'll have my men load her aboard your ship at once," says the man, "along with some meat for her to eat on the journey. Watch out for your fingers when you feed her, by the way. Thank you!"
Somehow, you have managed to bring the large lizard to <planet> without it breaking loose and eating you. You unload it and wait for its new owner to come. When he does, he pays you <payment>.
Migrant Workers
Bring a group of <bunks> migrant workers to <planet>. Payment is <payment>.
In the spaceport, you can't help but notice a group of six or seven men in ragged farm clothing, sitting by the edge of one of the launch pads. They are probably migrant workers looking for a lift.
	(Approach them.)
	You strike up a conversation with the workers. They say that they are tired of the seasonal fluctuations of farm work, and are looking for something a bit steadier and better paying. "We hear there's always work to be had in the mines on <planet>," they say. "Can you take us there? We've pooled together our savings, and can pay you <payment>."
	"No, sorry, I'm not headed in that direction."
The migrant workers thank you for transporting them, and hand you <payment>. You hope that they will be able to find better work here than they had on <origin>.
Vaccine to <planet>
Bring <tons> of flu vaccines to the lawless world of <planet>. Be sure the medicine gets into the right hands.
While you are sitting at a table in a local cafe, a woman sits down across from you and says, "Pardon me, Captain. I wonder if you would be interested in helping with a humanitarian mission."
	"Sorry, I'm too busy."
	"There's a flu epidemic on <planet>," she says. "It's a lawless world, so they have not been able to find any merchants willing to bring them medicine. But if they don't get a shipment of vaccine soon, the epidemic could become much worse, and even spread to other worlds."
	"Sorry, I don't believe in helping pirates."
	"Thank you," she says. "Your contact on <planet> will be a man named 'Raven Hunter.' Don't let anyone but him trick you into giving them the supplies."
After several shady characters have offered to buy the vaccines off you, or threatened to rob you, "Raven Hunter" finally shows up and collects them. He thanks you, and pays you <payment>.
Food to <planet>
Bring <tons> of food to the lawless world of <planet>, to help alleviate a famine.
As you are walking through the local market, a man says, "Captain, do you have room in your hold to bring food to a starving planet?"
	"Yes, but I hadn't heard news of a famine recently."
	"Sorry, not today."
	"No, this one wouldn't be in the news," he says. "It's <planet>, a lawless world. They're desperately in need of food, although it's mostly due to corruption and mismanagement of resources."
	"Well, it sounds like they're getting exactly what they deserve. And, I have no intention of risking my life to land on a pirate world."
	"Well, even so, no one deserves to starve to death. I'll help them."
	"Thank you," he says. "We'll load the food into your cargo hold immediately. The sooner you can drop it off on <planet>, the better."
It takes a while to figure out who exactly is in charge here. You sell off parts of your shipment of food to a few different local leaders, receiving <payment> in exchange.
Terraforming Rand
Bring a delegation of two people from Rand to the Academy of Planetary Sciences on Glory.
You stop in to the spaceport bar for a drink. The bar seems to be frequented mostly by the managers of the mining corporation; you suspect the workers don't earn enough to visit a bar very frequently. In one corner, two of the managers are having a very animated discussion. When they see you, they say, "Hello there, Captain! Interested in taking us on a business trip?"
	"What sort of trip?"
	"Sorry, I'm just in here for the drinks."
	"To Glory, to the Academy of Planetary Sciences," he says. "This world is rich in resources, and we're thinking that if we could only cool down the deserts a bit and get more plants to grow here, it would be a decent place to live. We've been dreaming about this for years, and I think it's time to go pay a terraforming consultant to tell us whether it's actually possible or not."
	"Sorry, that's way too far away for me to travel right now."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the managers hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Return to Rand with the delegation and a student who thinks she can terraform the planet cheaply.
You have reached <origin>, but you need <capacity> in order to take on the next mission. Return here when you have the required space free.
You drop off the two managers from Rand, whose names are Eric and Alaric, at the Academy. While you wait for their meeting to end, you look around the lobby. The students have apparently just had some sort of science symposium, and poster boards are on display all along the walls. One of them catches your eye: the title is "Affordable Terraforming through Equilibrium Mapping."
	The basic concept of the poster seems to be that instead of altering the climate of a planet through brute force, it ought to instead be feasible to use a properly timed nudge in the right direction to cause the climate to shift toward a new equilibrium point that supports greater biological complexity. This student seems to think that planets naturally "want" to grow more complex and support more life, but that they sometimes get "stuck" in less optimum states.
	It's an intriguing idea. On the other hand, at the bottom of the paper, the professor has written, "Very poor scholarship. Do not anthropomorphize planets."
	Just then, Eric and Alaric return, looking disappointed.
	"No luck?"
	They shake their heads. "It would cost fifteen million just to bring a specialist out for an initial consultation," says Eric, "and besides, the cost of terraforming machinery and upkeep is prohibitive. I think this whole Academy is just a money-making racket."
	"Have a look at this poster. Maybe this student would help us. We could bill it as a sort of internship for her."
	"Indeed. They gave this student a failing grade just for suggesting it could be done more cheaply."
	They look at the poster. "Sounds almost too good to be true," says Alaric. "Hang on, I'll look her up in the campus directory." A few minutes later, he is on the phone with the student who made the poster. Her name is Amy. It turns out she is about to flunk out anyway, and is more than willing to travel back to Rand with you when offered a tiny fraction of what the consultant would have received.
	An hour later, you meet up with Amy, and arrange for her to join you on your ship before it takes off. Eric and Alaric are very excited, but you are a bit worried about the wisdom of entrusting their planet's future to someone so young and inexperienced.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Eric, Alaric, and Amy hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
On the entire return journey, Eric and Alaric have been busy showing Amy geological survey maps of Rand and asking her for ideas. The moment you land, they hurry out of the ship. "I'm going to show Amy around," says Eric, "but meet us in the spaceport bar later if you want to help out with whatever we do next." Alaric hands you <payment> as payment for your services, and then follows after them.
Plant a thruster on an asteroid to guide it into a collision with the northern pole of Rand.
You'll need more cargo space in order to take the next mission from Eric and Alaric. Return here when you have <capacity>.
Alaric, Eric, and Amy are having a heated conversation at a table in the bar. When they see you, Alaric says, "Okay, let's let Captain <last> be the tie breaker." He motions to you to join them.
	Amy explains, "Based on my data, it appears that Rand once had a cooler, more moist climate. But the trouble is, it has almost no axial tilt."
	"That means no changing seasons," explains Eric.
	"The result is that much of the planet is very hot, but the poles are very cold. Nearly all the planet's water has migrated to the poles and ended up frozen into the ice caps. Because the weather is so unchanging here, nothing ever prompts that water to melt and rejoin the hydrological cycle."
	"Well, that seems impossible to fix. It's not like you can rotate a planet's axis."
	"Are you suggesting melting the ice caps somehow?"
	"Of course not," she says. "But what we can do is introduce a sudden variation in the planet's climate that will allow water to be distributed more evenly across the surface again."
	"That would be the traditional terraforming approach," she says, "using orbital mirrors, or geothermal power, or something similar to evaporate the ice caps at a faster rate than new ice is being deposited. That approach would take a century or so."
	"This is where Amy's plan gets a bit scary," says Alaric.
	"I'm proposing crashing a medium-sized asteroid into the ice cap," she says. "If we pick the right asteroid, we can control the amount of dust that is created. The result will be a sudden influx of variability, that may allow the planet to revert to a wetter, more biodiverse state."
	"That is a stupid idea, and I want nothing to do with it."
	"Well, if you think it will work, I'm willing to try it!"
	"Great!" says Amy. "I'll mark the asteroid on your radar. You just need to board it, install a small ion thruster, and return here."
	Eric contacts some spaceport workers and has them load a small thruster onto your ship, along with the equipment you will need to mount it on the asteroid.
You return to the spaceport to the confused looks of Eric, Alaric, and Amy. "You didn't put the thrusters on the asteroid," Amy says. "Just board the asteroid to attach the thrusters." Amy begins pushing you back to your ship, clearly eager to see the results of this experiment.
When you land, the sky already seems noticeably darker than before. Eric runs up to your ship. "You did it!" he says, excited. "A perfect hit. Now we just have to wait and see what the results are. Meet us in the spaceport bar again in a few hours, and Amy will have her initial measurements ready." He hands you a credit chip for <payment>.
Bring Amy to <destination> to collect some hardy plants that can grow in a low-light environment.
By the time you meet up with Eric, Alaric, and Amy, the cloud cover already seems to have visibly increased. Amy is very enthusiastic. "Atmospheric water vapor is on the rise," she says. "The impact vaporized enough ice to form a small ocean. I wouldn't be surprised if we get a rainstorm here in a day or two."
	"What's next?" you ask.
	She says, "I'd like to travel with you to <planet>, and collect some seeds and cuttings from plants that can handle a cooler world with dimmer light, since that's what we'll have here until the dust settles down. I'd say we'll need about ten tons of cargo space."
	"Sorry, I need to move on to some other work now."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Amy hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
As soon as you land, Amy heads off to meet with some local biologists who she contacted during the trip over here. "We'll be back in the spaceport in two hours," she says. "Be sure to have ten tons of cargo space free."
Bring Amy and <tons> of hardy plants that can grow in a low-light environment back to <destination>.
You meet up with Amy, and load the seeds and plant cuttings onto your ship.
	"Looks good, let's head back to Rand."
	"So, how do you plan to seed the whole planet with these, anyway?"
	She says, "My idea is to just disperse them in a few different locations, and trust that they will spread out over the next decade or so. We picked plants that are hardy and can spread very rapidly."
	"What happens if the plants are too invasive, and choke out all the local wildlife?"
	"Well," she says, "in order to keep the climate on <planet> dynamic, they're going to need regular asteroid impacts every few decades. If these plants are too invasive, they can just wait an extra decade or so in between impacts and let the desert creep back in and kill off the invasive plants."
	"Okay, I guess that would work."
	"Wait, they're going to have to keep smashing asteroids into their world in perpetuity to maintain the new environment?"
	"For a century or so, yes," she says. "But that's a whole lot more economical than vaporizing the ice caps using traditional terraforming equipment. Come on, let's get back to <planet>."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Amy and the seeds hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
When you get back to <planet>, Amy has you fly in a random path a few kilometers above the surface while she periodically dumps loads of seeds and plant material out the airlock. In the process, you fly through several rainstorms. This world's climate has indeed been altered. But you can't help wonder how a few tons of seed spread out over the entire surface of a planet is really going to help anything.
	Then you meet up with Eric and Alaric. Eric is elated. "We just got a massive rainstorm here!" he says. "We haven't had that much precipitation in a decade!"
	Alaric is less enthusiastic. "Flash floods washed out the road through the canyon," he says, "and very nearly flooded one of the mines, too."
	Amy says, "It will take a year or two for things to begin to settle down. Then we can figure out what our next steps should be."
	"I just hope we haven't made things worse than they were," says Alaric. He hands you your payment of <payment>. "Anyway, thanks for your help, <first>. It sounds like there's nothing more to be done here for the time being."
	Recent terraforming experiments have caused an increase in precipitation. Flash floods have scoured the landscape in some areas, but sandstorms are also less frequent, and the locals say the heat is a bit less oppressive than it used to be.
Unlawful Use of an Asteroid
Travel to <destination> by <date> for questioning on your "unlawful use of an asteroid."
When you land on <origin> and exit your ship, you are stopped by a Navy officer with a group of guards. "Captain <last>. You are wanted for..." The officer pauses and looks down at the tablet in his hand. "The 'unlawful use of an asteroid.' You are to travel to <destination> immediately for questioning."
	"Understood, officer."
	"I'm wanted for what?"
	"The unlawful use of an asteroid, Captain. I'm not entirely sure what that means, but I've been told to send you to <planet> by <day>. Your compliance would be much appreciated."
	"Alright. Hopefully I can get an answer as to what this is about."
You receive a message from the Republic itself. "Captain <last>. You have not arrived on Earth for your trial on the 'unlawful use of an asteroid' in the time provided to you and therefore are now a criminal of the Republic."
You are quickly escorted from the crowded <planet> spaceport to a court building in a wealthy district of the city and asked multiple questions pertaining to the events on Rand. "Why did you purposefully crash an asteroid into a planet? What did you expect to happen? Do you know how many people could have died?" You answer to the best of your ability, and after roughly an hour of questioning you are transferred to a different room where you find Eric, Alaric, and Amy.
	"What are we going to do?"
	"Do you know what we're doing here?"
	"Apparently someone had a problem with us terraforming Rand," Amy says, looking rather disappointed.
	"Don't worry," Alaric says. "Our lawyer is on his way right now. We'll all be out of here by the end of the day."
	Alaric's optimism turns out to be justified, as the lawyer quickly finds that there are no actual laws on the books that define lawful or unlawful uses of an asteroid. Since no one was hurt by the asteroid impact and data that Amy had been collecting shows that Rand's climate has changed for the better so far, the case is quickly dropped and you are escorted back to your ship.
	Before you are able to leave, Amy stops you. "Could you meet me in the spaceport bar, Captain? I have some good news to share with you."
Terraforming Research
Bring Amy and Nolan to <destination>, where they will research and publish Amy's terraforming methods.
You need <capacity> in order to take on the next mission. Return here when you have the required space free.
You find Amy in heated discussion with someone about her academy project, "Affordable Terraforming through Equilibrium Mapping." She takes a sip of her drink and invites you to sit down with them.
	"Hello, Captain! This is Nolan. He works in the Deep's Department of Terraforming Research and Application, and he contacted me after hearing about how we started terraforming Rand."
	Nolan outstretches his hand to you. "Nice to meet you, Captain."
	"Nice to meet you too."
	"I take it you're interested in Amy's ideas."
	"Absolutely. It's an extraordinary concept, and no offense to you Amy, but it's spectacular that someone of such little experience would imagine such a method of terraforming."
	Amy continues. "Nolan wants to help pursue research of my terraforming techniques. Would you be able to give us a lift to <destination>? I'll pay you <payment>."
	"Sorry, I have other places to be."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Amy and Nolan hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
The whole journey to <planet>, Amy and Nolan discussed the multiple planets within the Dirt Belt that would be perfect candidates for terraforming. "Nolan and I will spend the next few months here researching my theories," Amy says as she steps off of your ship. "I'll make sure to contact you once we're ready to try terraforming another planet." She hands you <payment>, then follows Nolan out of the spaceport.
Meet with Amy and Nolan on <destination> to talk about experimentally terraforming another planet.
You receive a message from Amy: "Hello, Captain <last>. I just wanted to tell you that Nolan and I have recently published our work on 'Reducing Terraforming Expenses Through Equilibrium Mapping,' and we've received a grant from the Deep for it! We're going to begin experiments with terraforming on a different world. Don't worry, the Republic has approved our experiment this time, so we won't get dragged off for any more cases of an 'unlawful use of an asteroid.' If you're interested in helping, pick us up on <destination>."
Terraforming Tundra
Travel to <destination> with Amy, Nolan, and four others.
The spaceport is crowded with ships and people when you land. Amy's publication must have stirred up quite the commotion among terraforming scientists.
	Spaceport security clears a path to your ship for Amy, Nolan, and four people you do not recognize. You notice that a few among the crowd of people are jeering and holding signs, one reading "Don't asteroid my planet!" and a half-eaten sandwich gets thrown in Amy's path as she approaches.
	"Not everyone is as happy with the prospect of affordable terraforming as we are," Amy says to you as she boards your ship along with suitcases full of scientific supplies. "But that's no reason to stop, now is it?"
	Amy introduces you to the four others that she brought on board. Two of them are terraforming experts who helped Amy and Nolan with their research. The other two are representatives: one sent by the Republic Parliament in order to oversee the project, and another from Tundra.
	"Once you're ready, Captain, please bring us to <destination>. Tundra was a tropical world millions of years ago, but became cold after a cataclysmic event of some sort. There's a good chance that we may be able to nudge the planet back toward a warmer climate if we do this right."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the scientists and their equipment hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
The journey to Tundra was spent by your passengers discussing the possible methods of terraforming the planet. The Republic representative was none too pleased when Nolan, perhaps jokingly, suggested crashing an asteroid into it.
	Everyone except for the Tundra native begins to shiver after stepping out of your ship onto the planet, even while inside a protective dome. "Meet us in the spaceport bar in a few hours. We need to finalize our plans of how we're going to execute this experiment."
Bring the Republic representative overseeing the terraforming project to <destination>, where he will attempt to find an alternative solution to terraforming Tundra that does not involve an asteroid.
Amy, Nolan, and the other two scientists tell you the known history of Tundra's climate. Millions of years ago, an asteroid impact or large volcanic eruption altered the planet's atmosphere. Now, the planet no longer retains enough heat from its host star in order to stay warm.
	"Tundra's snow covered surface only exacerbates the problem, reflecting most of the star's light back into space," Nolan explains. "This means that we need to both alter the atmosphere in order for it to retain more heat and alter the surface in order for it to reflect less heat."
	Amy rolls out a map of the entire planet onto the table. Different regions of the surface are color coded, and a large red spot in the planet's southern hemisphere sticks out to you.
	"Tundra has very low volcanic activity, but seismic mapping has led us to this area." Amy circles the red spot with her finger. "Magma from the planet's mantle is building up under this area of the crust, which, lucky for us, is unusually thin. Still, it could be another ten thousand years before the magma builds up enough pressure under the surface to cause a supereruption, melting the snow around it and releasing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere that over time will raise the global temperatures."
	"So are we going to wait ten thousand years for it to erupt?"
	"How does this help our situation?"
	The Republic representative scoffs at your comment. "If we were then we wouldn't be here, now would we, Captain?"
	One of the other scientists responds, "What we plan to do is encourage the eruption of this volcano by making the crust above the volcano thinner. When the pressure of the magma is able to overcome the pressure of the crust, an eruption will occur."
	"How exactly do you plan to do that?" the Tundra representative responds. "And what will happen to the people who live near that area?"
	Nolan answers, "The people who live near the volcano will need to evacuate the area with all their belongings. The Republic should provide any assistance needed for the evacuation. As for how we will cause the volcano to erupt, we need something energetic enough to crack the planet's crust in the location of the volcano, releasing the pressure that the magma is causing to spark an eruption. That's where we bring in another asteroi--"
	"No, no, no!" the Republic representative exclaims, cutting Nolan off mid-sentence. "The Republic will not gain a reputation for crashing asteroids into its own planets. The consequences of such an action could be disastrous should it go wrong! And in what way will this warm the planet when the resulting volcanic winter could last decades and only result in an even colder climate? Are you not even old enough to remember how a supereruption on Hope caused the evacuation of the entire planet? If the people of Tundra are this desperate to terraform their planet then normal techniques should be employed, none of this 'equilibrium mapping' nonsense."
	"Sir," Amy speaks up with a stern tone of voice, "we have already been authorized by the Republic to undergo this terraforming experiment, so unless you have half a teraton of cheap explosives, we're going to need to use an asteroid. The volcanic winter can be easily avoided by having a fleet of freighters sweep the volcanic ash out of the atmosphere, meaning we'll get the benefits of the greenhouse gases without the detriments of volcanic ash reflecting Cebalrai's heat back into space. No one knew the volcano on Hope was going to erupt, but we can prepare for this eruption and take steps to mitigate the problems." Amy looks the representative straight in the eyes and smirks. "We're scientists, we have this handled."
	The representative falls silent. After a moment of thinking, he says "Captain, I need you to take me to Parliament. I may be able to authorize the use of explosives that should suffice, but it may not be as cheap as Ms. Amy is hoping. We're not about to turn asteroids into our single solution for everything."
	"I'll get my ship ready to launch."
	"Sorry, I have other things I could be doing."
	The representative leaves the bar. "We'll wait here," Amy says to you. "I'll speak with the Tundra government about evacuating the area around where the impact site will be so that we can start when you get back."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the representative hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Return to <destination> with the Republic representative.
"Wait here," the Republic representative says curtly. Several hours later, he returns, not looking very happy. "What a waste of time. Parliament has declined my request. I don't much agree with this, but you will need to crash an asteroid into Tundra if you wish to achieve your goal." Before you ready for launch, you send a message to Amy and Nolan telling them that an asteroid will be used after all. You don't receive an immediate response.
Your ship is targeted by pirate fleets when you enter the system. Before you engage, you receive a message from Amy.
	"Captain, these pirate ships have been occupying the system for days. They must be taken out if we are to safely crash an asteroid into Tundra. If you aren't able to fight them, distract them until backup arrives."
You return to <planet>, but not all of the pirates have been fought off. They don't look like they're leaving any time soon either. Better depart and finish them off for good.
Plant a thruster on an asteroid to guide it into a collision with the dormant supervolcano on Tundra.
The pirates that occupied the system did not make an effort to land on Tundra, but they did harass any merchant ships that passed through the system. The government of Tundra pays you <payment> for helping in ridding the system of the pirates, a pleasantly unexpected reward.
	You gather with the scientists in the spaceport bar. The Tundra native informs you that all residents close enough to the volcano to be in danger have been evacuated. "All we need to do now is find the right asteroid," Amy says, and after only a short time of searching, she finds the perfect candidate. "Just like last time, Captain."
	Spaceport workers load a small thruster and the equipment you will need to mount it on the asteroid into your ship.
You return to the spaceport to the confused looks of Amy and the rest of the scientists. "You didn't put the thrusters on the asteroid," Amy says. "Just board the asteroid to attach the thrusters." Amy begins pushing you back to your ship, clearly eager to see the results of this experiment.
A plume of debris has formed in a mushroom cloud shape above where the asteroid hit. The scientists are viewing their instruments in anticipation for what happens next.
	Almost an hour after the impact, the ground begins to shake slightly, even though the volcano is located hundreds of kilometers away. "This might be it!" Nolan exclaims as he closely watches a seismometer receiving readings from near the impact site. Suddenly the seismometer spikes, and another plume, much larger than the asteroid impact, rises from the impact site. Half an hour later, the low sound of the massive eruption can be heard in the spaceport, triggering another burst of cheers from the scientists. "It actually worked!" one of them yells out.
	You fly the scientists over top of the volcano, allowing them to take readings of the air and surface. "Greenhouse gas levels are off the charts!" Amy exclaims. "Once these gases disperse across the planet's atmosphere, they should begin warming the entire planet."
	The heat has formed a huge circle of melted snow around the volcano, revealing the green color of trees and the dull grays and browns of rock. Closer to the center of the eruption you spot dozens of lava flows emanating from the center of the impact crater.
	"It looks beautiful from up here."
	"Yes it does, Captain," the Republic representative says. "Yes it does."
	"First we need to clear all this volcanic ash out of the atmosphere, as otherwise the planet's temperature will drop, then we wait," Amy says to you. "We should be able to tell how this will affect Tundra's climate in a year or two."
	You steer your ship back to the spaceport. Amy pays you <payment> after you land. "Thanks for your help, Captain. We're going to stay here and monitor Tundra's climate as it shifts, so there's nothing more that we need you for."
Millions of years ago, this was a warm world, perhaps even tropical. But some cataclysmic event, perhaps a meteor strike or a massive volcanic eruption, altered the planet's atmosphere enough to turn it into the nearly lifeless, frozen planet it is today. Recent experiments in terraforming the planet have attempted to remedy the climate by causing a supervolcano to prematurely erupt.
When you land, you receive a message from Amy, the girl you helped to terraform Rand and Tundra.
	"I hope everything is going well, Captain. I just wanted to give you an update on what has occurred in the past year.
	"Tundra's climate has drastically improved. Areas around the equator are starting to become completely snow-free, and I was amazed when I was able to walk outside without a heavy coat on. The Republic has placed a halt on any more experiments, as they wish to see how the situations on Tundra and Rand turn out.
	"Speaking of Rand, last month I got to catch up with Eric and Alaric when I visited the planet. They've told me that Rand is becoming a far better place to live on now. It's even becoming a popular tourist destination. They wanted me to relay their gratitude to you for making their dream come true.
	"That's all I have to say. Thanks again for all the help. I don't know where I would be without it."
Rand is a desert world, too dry for much farming and with gravity low enough to be uncomfortable for most human beings. It is, however, the best source of heavy metals in the galactic south. Aside from the managers of the mining companies, nearly all the people here are migrant workers from elsewhere in the Dirt Belt, who have come to spend a season working for the relatively high wages that uranium mining offers, either to send money off-world or to save it up in order to build a better life for themselves.
	Due to the results of recent terraforming experiments, Rand has become a moderately more habitable place. Fascination with this change in climate has led to Rand becoming a semi-popular tourist destination of the Dirt Belt.
The spaceport village consists of several large domes, which keep out the wind and driving snow; ships enter and exit the largest of the domes through a hatch that closes as soon as they have come through. Before the planet was terraformed, enough snow would pile up on top of one of the domes every decade or so that it became a danger of collapsing under its own weight; the locals would simply move out of that dome and build another one higher up on the snowpack, but the changing climate has reduced the amount of snow enough that the locals may never need to build another dome again.
Transport a wolf, a goat, and a cabbage to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>.
You hear a strange crunching sound coming from your cargo hold.
The worrisome munching sound in your ship's hold is followed by a horrific shrieking bleating noise and then an equally horrific silence. Turning on your cargo hold's security camera, you discover that there is nothing left of the goat and the cabbage that you were transporting except a few scraps of cabbage, some bones, and a lot of blood.
	Meanwhile, the wolf is calmly gnawing on what you suspect is the goat's femur, with a rather self-satisfied look in its eyes. Apparently the goat ate the cabbage, and shortly after that the wolf ate the goat.
The man who collects the wolf from you on the landing pad is furious. "I told the shipping company not to put the goat in the same ship as the wolf or the cabbage," he says, "but I guess they tried to save money by subcontracting it all to the same captain."
	Because you only delivered a third of the cargo safely, he only pays you <payment>.
Missing drone
Travel to the <waypoints> system to see if you can find any sign of a probe drone that had been launched by a team of scientists before they were attacked by pirates and forced to flee.
As you are exploring the marketplace, a man wearing comically thick glasses comes over to talk to you. "Captain <last>?" he asks. You nod. "I hear that you're not averse to taking on risks," he says. "I'm the lead scientist on a project studying a spatial anomaly in an uninhabited system nearby. We had just launched a probe to study the anomaly more closely when a band of pirates arrived and forced us to flee the system. Would you be willing to travel there and see if you can retrieve the drone's data?"
	"How strong of a threat is the pirate fleet?"
	"Sorry, I don't have time to help you."
	"Just a couple of interceptors," he says. "We were in a scoutship, with no real weapons to speak of, and none of us on the ship have any combat experience. So, we felt it was safer to run away than to try to fight, even though we were leaving valuable equipment behind."
	"That doesn't sound like much of a threat. I'd be glad to help."
	"Thank you so much!" he says. "All I need you to do is board the drone and download its database. Unless the pirates have already stripped out the computer, of course. The drone is in the Terminus system, a few jumps away from here. We'll be waiting on <destination> for your return."
You board the science drone and discover that the pirates have stripped just about everything of value from it: the engines, the sensors, and the fuel cell that powered it. But the computer system is either too deeply integrated into the drone, or too specialized, to be of any value to the pirates. You transfer enough power to the drone's batteries to reactivate it, and are able to retrieve the data that the scientist was looking for. But it's clear that this drone, or what's left of it, is not going anywhere. You'll have to leave it behind.
You've returned to <planet>, but you don't have the drone's data. Go to Terminus and board the science drone to retrieve the data.
The scientist is overjoyed that you were able to retrieve the data from the drone. Almost in tears, he says, "We were worried that all our planning and fundraising had been for nothing. These measurements will help us to understand that spatial anomaly far better than we do right now." He hands you a credit chip worth <payment>. "And by the way, my name is Ivan. I have an office near the spaceport on Valhalla that you can visit if ever you're wanting to help, or just curious."
	"Can you tell me more about this anomaly you are studying?"
	"I'm glad I was able to help."
	Ivan says, "It seems to be a partially collapsed wormhole, something that once linked this part of the galaxy to somewhere else. But, we haven't succeeded in sending anything through it. Maybe the wormhole is no longer passable. Or maybe there's some way to make it open more fully. Or maybe only ships that are specially attuned to its energy signature can travel through it. We don't even know if the wormhole is a natural phenomenon or some sort of alien artifact. Honestly, we aren't sure if it's even a wormhole at all. We'll need to study the data you've recovered to understand it further."
	"A wormhole? Those actually exist?"
	"What makes you think it's a wormhole? Have you found anomalies similar to this before?"
	"Well of course. The existence of wormholes has been proven for some time now. The Deep managed to create wormholes on the atomic scale before the Republic was even founded." He lowers his voice. "But I suspect that you're asking about wormholes large enough for a ship to pass through."
	Ivan looks around the spaceport, as if checking to see if he's being watched. He then looks back to you and motions for you to lean in. Whispering, he says, "The Republic doesn't like when people share this information, but there is one stable wormhole just beyond the Republic's borders."
	"You mean the wormhole to the Hai?" you ask.
	"Interesting, you know of it," Ivan responds. "The anomaly in Terminus bears a striking resemblance to it in some of our readings, although it is very different in others."
	He looks around again and stands up straight. He then raises his voice, almost projecting it for anyone around you to hear. "But of course, the Deep never figured out how to make wormholes big enough for anything useful, otherwise we wouldn't even need hyperdrives," he says with a wink. "Anyway, thank you again for helping me. Hopefully we meet again in the future."
Rescue Tod
Travel to <destination> in search for Tod, the son of a single mother from <origin>.
Wandering around the spaceport to see what it has to offer, you make your way into one of the dimly lit restaurants to avoid the crowded streets and metallic-tasting air outside. The restaurant is mostly empty. One of its only inhabitants is a dirty-looking woman crying with her head down in one of the booths.
	(Approach the woman and ask why she is crying.)
	(Ignore her and leave the restaurant.)
	As you walk close to the woman, she raises her head from her arms and brushes her hair out of her face to look at you. Tears run down her cheeks and her nose is running. "Wh-wh-what do you w-want?" she asks in a quiet voice, trying to speak through sobs.
	"Why are you crying?"
	You ask the woman if she needs help. She wipes away the tears with the sleeve of her shirt and tells you that she is looking for her son, Tod. "I sent him away to a mining job on Placer because I don't have the money to support him myself, but on the way the ship he was on was attacked and boarded by pirates." She begins to sob again. "I d-don't know if he's d-dead or a slave. I tried t-talking to someone from the Syndicate, but they said that saving him wouldn't be w-worth it.
	"W-would you be able to help? Please do if you c-can."
	"Alright, I'll help you. Where should I look for him?"
	"Sorry, I'm not going to risk my life for someone I don't know."
	The woman begins crying even louder than she was before. A waiter walks up to you and suggests that you leave before making the situation worse, and one of the few customers in the restaurant gives you a dirty look for making his meal experience even worse.
	You wait for the streets to become less crowded before leaving the restaurant. As you look back through the windows of the restaurant, you catch a glimpse of the woman still crying in the booth before the crowd blocks your line of sight and you continue walking.
	"Thank you s-so much! The closest pirate planet to here is <destination>. If he's still alive then I'm sure he would be there. I can feel it." The woman gives you a description of Tod Copper so that you may find him and thanks you again for agreeing to help her. She asks that if you find him to bring him to a location in the <origin> spaceport where she will be waiting.
Locate the <npc> and board it to rescue Tod, then bring him to <destination> so that he may reunite with his mother.
The air in the <origin> spaceport smells of tobacco and tastes of the salt from the world's vast oceans. You receive sideways looks from rough-looking pirates, but none make a move to cause any trouble. As lawless as pirates can be, they still adhere to a form of honor code when in a planet's main spaceport. At least generally.
	You ask a bartender for directions to the local slave traders, as that is the likely place that Tod would be if he was taken here. He points you to a slave trader by the name of Cygnet Brig who "runs the slave trade 'round these parts."
	Cygnet owns a large warehouse building located on the edge of the spaceport island where he keeps all his slaves packed together in groups of three in small holding cells. Some slaves are rattling the bars on their cell or screaming in protest, but many have seemed to accept their fate. Cygnet, a tall, thin, mustachioed man, notices you gazing at the cells. "Can't keep 'em too packed together, oth'wise they's get each otha sick," he remarks in a thick accent of unknown origin to you. "What can I get ya?"
	"I'm here to buy a slave."
	"Do you have a boy by the name of Tod Copper?"
	Cygnet strokes his mustache. "Tod Copper. Tod Copper. Tell you what, that name doesn' ring a bell. Heck, I don' even keep track of names 'less I get someone impor'ant. If ya lookin' for someone in particular to buy, can I get a description?"
	You provide Cygnet with the description of Tod that his mother gave you, then explain to him that Tod would have been taken from a ship bound for Placer.
	"Oh yeah, that bugger! That little rebel was causin' me trouble so I sold him off soon as I could. If ya looking for him, then you're gonna need to look for a ship by the name of <npc>. They bought your boy Tod 'bout four days ago. Might be hangin' around a system nearby."
	You thank Cygnet, who has been surprisingly polite for a slave trader, for the information. "If ya ever need a slave, just come talk to me," he remarks as you walk back to your ship. "I've got the cheapest slaves this side of Sol."
You've landed on <planet>, but you haven't yet found Tod. Keep looking for the <npc> and then board the ship; it can't be far from Deadman's Cove.
When you breach the ship's hull, you find the crew of the <npc> more concerned with containing the fires caused by your weapons than with you walking onto their ship. Almost every one of the crew members is a teenager. One looks at you and the pistol in your hand with mortal fear in his eyes.
	Through the smoke and steam, you see a boy running toward you who fits the description of Tod Copper.
	"Get on my ship!"
	"Are you Tod?"
	"Yeah! Are you here to save me?"
	"Get on my ship!" you yell, motioning for him to come toward you.
	The boy runs past you and into your ship. Following closely behind Tod is a large bearded man holding a laser rifle in one hand and a fragmentation grenade in the other.
	"That's my crew member, you no-good piece of sh--"
	Before the captain is able to finish his sentence, pipes in the wall next to him explode, blasting hot steam all over the right side of his body, causing him to begin rolling on the floor in horrible screeches of pain. Not wanting to stay connected to the ship any longer than you need to be, you run back into your ship and fly away.
Bring Tod to <planet>
Now that Tod's mother knows he is safe, bring him to <destination> so that he may start his mining job to support him and his mother.
This mission requires that you have at least one free bunk. Return once you have the space.
Tod's mother almost tears up at the sight of him as you approach. "Oh, my baby boy is alive!" she exclaims, running up and hugging Tod as his face reddens with embarrassment. "Are you hurt? Are you okay? Do you think you'll be fine?" Tod's mother asks, kissing his cheeks between each question.
	"I'm fine, Mom," Tod says in an annoyed tone of voice. Some things never change.
	The mother gives you a handful of credit chips. At a glance, you guess that they couldn't be worth more than 1,000 credits. "I know it isn't much for the work you've done, Captain, but it's all I have to give you in return."
	"Don't worry about it."
	"I'm sorry but I can't take this from you."
	"This is just so wonderful. There aren't many people around here who would do such a thing for such little pay."
	You hand the credits back to the mother as she begins to tear up again. "Thank you so much, Captain."
	"Hold on," Tod chimes in. "I still need to get to <planet>."
	"Of course!" his mother yells out. "Captain, would you please make sure that Tod has a safe passage to <destination>?"
	"And make sure I don't become a slave this time," Tod quips jokingly.
	"Okay, I'll take Tod to <planet>."
You land on <planet>, but remember that Tod is in one of your escorts that has yet to enter the system. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
You wish Tod the best of luck on <planet>. "Thank you, Captain. Hopefully I can repay you one day. As cliche as it sounds, I owe you my life."
Flee to <planet>
Flee from <origin> to <destination> with the girl you let on to your ship.
As with all Paradise Worlds, the air is just the right temperature when you step out of your ship, and a light breeze rustles the leaves of the trees planted around the spaceport. While taking a moment to breathe in the fresh air, you hear yelling coming from the entrance to the <origin> shipyard. Looking over, you spot a young girl with a backpack running from two spaceport security guards. "Get back here!" they yell at the girl, chasing her with no success.
	"Someone help me!" the girl shrieks out. As she runs, a credit chip falls out of her backpack.
	(Let her onto my ship.)
	(Ignore the scene.)
	The girl looks you in the eyes as she approaches, expecting help that will never come. Air rushes past you as she and the security guards run by. After a few meters, the security guards catch up to the girl, tackling her to the ground and detaining her as they remove her backpack full of credit chips.
	You open the hatch to your ship and yell "Get on!" as the girl approaches. "Thank you, Captain," she says while getting closer, to much protest from the approaching security guards.
	As she enters your ship, she grabs your arm and pulls you in with her before closing the hatch. "Launch and go to <destination>, now! I'll explain when we get there."
You land on <planet>, but realize that the girl is in one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Escaping Paradise
Escape the Paradise Worlds and travel to <destination> where Diana Howl will give over part of her family's fortune to the local government of <planet>.
"You need to explain what is going on here," you say just after setting your ship down.
	"Alright, alright, I'll explain." You notice that the girl has a strange mix between a posh Paradise World accent and a Dirt Belt or possibly even Rim accent. "My name is Diana Howl. My father is the CEO of a large marketing firm. And this," Diana opens her backpack, revealing its full contents of thousands of credit chips, "this is part of my family fortune, about half a billion credits of it. Don't worry, my father should be able to make this back in a few months' time."
	"Why have you stolen all this?"
	"I'm calling the spaceport authorities."
	"No, wait! Let me explain!" Diana protests.
	"All my life I've been fascinated with the world outside my little bubble of the Paradise Planets. My father met my mother on Heartland in the Cor Caroli system while he was on a business trip, so my mother would often take me on trips to the Dirt Belt. The last time I went was before the war though; my mother didn't want me anywhere near the 'Free Loafers,' as she called them. Back then life in the Dirt Belt didn't seem anywhere near comparable to life in the Paradise Worlds, and I can only imagine how much worse it might be after being so close to a war, so I decided that I needed to do something to help.
	"Now, can you take me to <destination>? I wish to hand this over to the government there to help them. It may not seem like much in the grand scheme of how many credits go into running a planet, but it should be a huge boost to their economy."
	"Alright, I'll help you."
	"What makes you think they won't hand it over to your father?"
	"This is a crime. I don't want to get in trouble helping you."
	Diana pauses. "I hadn't thought of that," she says in a downtrodden tone, "but I at least have to try! Please just bring me to <planet>. Please!" Diana looks up at you with puppy dog eyes, quivering her lip with the backpack of credit chips held against her chest.
	"Alright, I'll bring you to <planet>."
	"Sorry, but I'm not putting myself on the line for this."
	"Excellent!" Diana yells out. She drops the bag of credits on the floor and gives you a hug. "We'll have to leave immediately, for I fear that the spaceport authorities here might be searching for us."
	You call the spaceport authorities and tell them that Diana Howl is on your ship. Moments later when they arrive, they take Diana kicking and screaming off of your ship. She yells harsh profanities at you as she is taken away, one among them being "Syndicate lover." As a reward for "catching" Diana, the spaceport authorities transfer 150,000 credits to your account.
A teenager who stole half a billion credits from her family's wealth, you turned her in to the authorities for a meagre reward.
You land on <planet>, but realize that Diana is in one of your escorts that hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Last Hope
Escape from the Navy and travel to <destination> where Diana Howl hopes that the Free Worlds will help her.
Diana is eager to get going as soon as you land. "This is going to be great! I'm going to do so much good with this! I can't wait to see the look on their faces when I open up my backpack in front of them!" Diana says rapidly as she bounces up and down with the backpack of credit chips on her back.
	As you gather a few credits to bring with you in case you see something you want to buy, Diana bounces off the ship. Suddenly, her crazed rambling stops. Diana comes running back onto the ship yelling "We need to go! Fly to <destination>! The Free Worlds should protect me!"
	"What is it? What's happening?"
	(Launch immediately.)
	"Look outside," Diana says with a ghastly look on her face. You check your ship's external cameras, and roaming around your ship is a group of men in Navy uniforms. One of them raises a megaphone to his mouth.
	"Hand over the girl and her credits and we can all walk away from this peacefully, Captain."
	"Why do you need her?"
	"Over my dead body!"
	"Alright, I'll bring her out."
	"In case you haven't noticed, Captain, that girl is in possession of over half a billion stolen credits. She's a criminal, and helping her makes you a criminal too. Given your status, Captain <last>, I'd appreciate it if you didn't make me the officer that put <first> <last> behind bars."
	"I'm sorry officer, but I can't help you."
	"Okay, I'll hand her over."
	Diana looks to you in shock. "You wouldn't!" she screeches. "You can't! Fly me to <planet> right now!"
	"I'm not going to become a criminal to fulfill your crazy dream."
	"Okay, we'll fly to <planet>."
	You allow the Navy officer and his troops onto your ship, where they apprehend Diana and her stolen credits. They take her kicking and screaming off of your ship. She yells harsh profanities at you as she is taken away, one among them being "Syndicate lover."
	"Thank you for not causing any more trouble, Captain," the officer says to you. He then hands you 500,000 credits for "playing nice" and leaves.
	You activate your repulsor engines, sending the Navy troops recoiling away from your ship. As you ascend into space, your computers detect multiple ships targeting you.
A teenager who stole half a billion credits from her family's wealth, you turned her in to the authorities for a moderate reward.
Exchange of Goods
Travel to <destination> and hand the backpack of credits and Diana Howl's note over to the Navy.
While in flight, Diana tells you the stories that she heard of the war. In the Paradise Planets region, they were told that declaring independence and bombing Geminus and Martini was the Free Worlds' first step in overthrowing the Republic.
	"We should talk to Alondo," Diana says. "He'll be able to handle this situation."
	As you're coming in for a landing on Bourne, you receive a message from Alondo. "<first>!" he says. "I just heard that you were in system. Want to meet up for a drink and talk about old times?"
	"I'd be glad to any other time, but I need your help at the moment."
	As you're coming in for a landing, you contact Alondo, who is luckily on Bourne. "What have you gotten yourself into?" he responds after you mention that you need his help.
	"I'll explain the situation when we meet."
	You meet with Alondo at his office in the Free Worlds Senate building. After he and Diana exchange greetings, you explain the situation to him.
	"You what?" Alondo responds. "You have to turn her in. The war may be over, Captain, but there is still tension between the Republic and Free Worlds that we cannot have a situation like this exacerbating."
	"You can't do that!" Diana yells in protest. "I thought the Free Worlds was supposed to be all about going against the Republic, but you're just going to give in?"
	"Look here, kid," Alondo says in a stern tone. "The Free Worlds was never about being against the Republic, it was only ever about being against Parliament. There's a big difference there. What you've done is a crime, even to the Free Worlds. We are not about to gain a reputation of harboring criminals of the Republic."
	Diana, instead of protesting further, puts her head down. "I'll be in your ship, Captain," she says. Diana storms off, making an effort to create as much noise as possible with the stomps of her feet.
	"Spoiled kid," Alondo says quietly. "Attitudes like that are why I joined the Southern Defense Pact. Anyway Captain, I suggest you hand her over to the Navy immediately. I'll contact the Republic if you need me to."
	"Alright, I'll hand her over."
	"Sorry, Alondo, but I agree with her cause."
	Alondo breathes a sigh of relief. "You should probably go check on her. I'll message you where the Navy wants to pick her up."
	"I understand. Please, just don't drag the Free Worlds into this."
	You say goodbye to Alondo and return to your ship. When you arrive and look around, Diana is notably absent. In your pilot's seat she has left her backpack and a written note. The paper has noticeable tear stains in one of the corners.
Dear <first> <last>,
	I don't care about the credits anymore, but I can't go back to my family. I'll be too much of a disgrace, and I can't even imagine looking my parents in the eyes after what I've done. I've left the credits with you. You can do with them as you wish.
	I've taken this chance to escape from my old life. I want to become my own person in the world, and I want to do it on my own. Please don't come looking for me, because wherever I am I'll be happier than when I was with my parents. I've failed myself today, but I'm still going to strive for the betterment of the less fortunate. Thank you for trying to make my dreams come true, even if you couldn't succeed.
				Diana W. Howl
	You stare down at the backpack, stuffed full with over half a billion credits.
	(Hand the credits over to the Navy.)
	(Steal the credits.)
	You fold the note and slip it into the backpack so that you can show it to the Navy to explain why Diana is not with you. You contact the Navy's crime report hotline and tell them that you have the stolen credits. A few minutes later, they respond telling you that a fleet is waiting on <destination> to retrieve the credits.
	You fold the note and slip it into the backpack so that you can show it to the Navy to explain why Diana is not with you. Alondo sends you a message, telling you that the Navy says they are waiting on <destination> for the credits.
	You rip the note apart and begin counting the credits. In total, the backpack contains a whopping 525,894,400 credits. Over half a billion credits richer, you sit down and wonder what you will spend it on.
A teenager who stole half a billion credits from her family's wealth, she decided to start a new life outside the Paradise Planets while you decided to pocket the substantial fortune she left behind to avoid being hunted down.
You spot a fleet of docked Navy ships as you come in for a landing. A small squad of troops gather around your ship after you land. You are greeted by a Navy officer upon exiting your ship and explain to him where Diana is, showing him the note she wrote.
	"That is unfortunate," he responds with a troubled look on his face. "We'll contact the Howl family about this." Before letting you go, the officer hands you <payment>. "This is the reward that Mr. Howl put out for the return of his credits. Thank you for doing the right thing, Captain."
A teenager who stole half a billion credits from her family's wealth, she decided to start a new life outside the Paradise Planets while you dutifully turned in the credits to the authorities to keep the peace. You received a substantial reward for your integrity.
Mebsuta Disaster
<destination> is under attack by pirates. Assist the Republic by delivering <cargo> to the planet as soon as possible.
You are approached by a Navy officer. "Are you Captain <last>?" You nod. "Would you be able to assist us? A sizable gang of pirates has occupied <system> and raided the spaceport. A Navy fleet is on its way to eliminate the pirates, but reports from the planet indicate that the spaceport of <planet> is in dire need of supplies. Any building above three stories was badly damaged and everything in the warehouses was either stolen or destroyed. We need a ship to bring <cargo> to them as soon as possible, but there are no available Navy ships capable of doing the job. Would you deliver the supplies for us, Captain?"
	"I'd be glad to help, Officer."
	"Sorry, but I'm not traveling in that direction."
As the last crate of supplies is loaded off of your ship, the Navy ships defending the system land. The local authorities thank you for helping, and you are paid <payment>.
Spaceport Defenses
<stopovers> are under attack and in need of spaceport defenses. Drop off your cargo of <cargo> on these three planets and return to <destination> for payment. (<payment>)
A captain in a Free Worlds uniform enters the spaceport and turns on a megaphone. "Attention! The Free Worlds are in need of volunteers able to carry <cargo> to <stopovers> for fortifying the spaceports nearest to the pirate system of Men. Free Worlds ships are currently preoccupied with fighting off a pirate incursion into those systems, and we are unable to spare enough ships for the job. Our hope is that these defenses will deter any future incursions. Payment will be <payment> for the first captain who accepts." The spaceport falls quiet as captains contemplate this offer.
	(Ignore.)
	The Free Worlds captain thanks you for offering your help. Spaceport workers load the turrets onto your ship, and the captain tells you to return to <origin> once you have dropped off the turrets for payment.
The last of the defenses are quickly unloaded from your ship, put into place, and activated. A pirate ship attacking the system attempts to follow you down to the surface, but the fire coming from the newly installed spaceport turrets forces the pirate to turn away and flee for orbit. Time to return to <destination>.
The Free Worlds captain thanks you for helping to fortify the frontier worlds, and pays you <payment>.
Bad Harvest
The pirate world of <destination> is experiencing a famine. Warlords of the planet have threatened the Syndicate into giving them food. Deliver <cargo> to the world for <payment>.
In the <origin> spaceport, you are approached by a Syndicate employee. By the looks of his uniform, he works for Syndicated Security. "Hello, Captain. You're a competent pilot, correct?" You nod your head. "Excellent. The Syndicate needs <cargo> transported to <destination>. The pirate world has seen a particularly bad harvest this past season, so much of the population is without sufficient food. Pirate warlords have threatened to begin raiding our freighters and frontier worlds if we don't provide them with food. It's cheaper to do what they want, so we've agreed to the deal, but we don't want to risk any of our own ships being destroyed. The Syndicate will pay you <payment> should you accept and complete this job."
	"Alright, I'll get my ship ready."
	"Sorry, but I have better things to be doing."
Multiple bands of pirates, each run by a different warlord, are waiting in the spaceport when you land. They take the food from your cargo hold like animals, leaving quite the mess behind. When you return to your ship, you find that the Syndicate has deposited <payment> into your account.
Escape to Freedom
Bring <bunks> escaped slaves to freedom on <destination>, far away from their pirate oppressor. The woman on <origin> promised that a person on <planet> would give you <payment>.
It is dusk at the <origin> spaceport, and the setting sun casts long shadows across the spaceport deck. You take notice of a slim cloaked figure walking only a few meters behind you who seems to be keeping pace.
	(Confront them.)
	(Stop walking and see if they stop as well.)
	You stop by the entrance to a store that claims to have "the best Polecats!" and lean against the building, trying not to draw attention to yourself. The figure keeps walking at the same pace, and as they pass you, a soft voice says, "Follow me," from under the cloak. The figure bolts off into a dark alleyway next to the building.
	You turn around and stare right at the figure, who stops within a foot of you. The shadows cast by the sun make it impossible for you to make out their face under the cloak. "Follow me," a soft voice says from under the cloak, before the figure bolts off into a dark alleyway next to the building.
	(Follow the figure.)
	You step into the alleyway and find the figure standing under a lamp. The figure removes their cloak, revealing the face of a woman with short dark hair and a distinct, jagged scar across her right cheek. She begins whispering to you. "You're not from this world. I can tell. You're too clean and unscarred. Could you help me?"
	"Why would I help a pirate?"
	The woman chuckles. "Not everyone who lives on a pirate world is a pirate, you know. Maybe you need to learn how not to stereotype. Regardless..." She trails off.
	"It isn't what I want, it's what I need," she whispers, putting heavy emphasis on the word "need."
	"You undoubtedly know about the horrendous slave trade that still exists on pirate worlds today. A slave trade that the Republic doesn't care to abolish, leaving innocent people to waste away like rats in a cage, working for their lives. As if the politicians of the Republic aren't vermin themselves..." Her face twists into a hate-filled scorn as she speaks of the Republic. It then returns to normal as she continues. "I'm part of a group of people who have decided to take matters into our own hands. We're mostly people who grew up on pirate worlds, but some of us were born elsewhere.
	"I assassinated a pirate warlord a couple of days ago, and I have been sheltering his slaves ever since. What I need from you is to transport the <bunks> people in my care to <destination>. Another member of my group should be there to pay you <payment> and take the people somewhere far away from here." She cocks her head to the right. "Will you fight for justice and transport these people, Captain?" The look in her eyes suggests that she won't take no for an answer.
	"Anything for the freedom of the innocent."
	"Sorry, but I'm not going to risk my life for your cause."
	"Good choice, Captain. We'll wait till the sun has fully set, then I will bring the people to your ship. I'll be traveling in my own ship and launch ahead of you, which should hopefully distract the pirates looking for their warlord's assassin and give you enough room to escape. Wait for me after you land on <planet>."
	"Poor choice, Captain." The woman pulls a knife from under her cloak and tilts it to blind you with the glare of the lamp above her. You stumble backward in anticipation of an attack, but the woman does not move. "I'll remember this, Captain," she hisses at you. The woman puts her cloak back up and sprints down the alleyway into darkness.
You land on <planet> and begin looking around for the man you are supposed to meet, but then you realize that not all of the escaped slaves are here. Better depart and wait for your escorts holding the rest to arrive.
Just as was promised, a man approaches you in the spaceport and tells you that he is part of the same group as the woman. Interestingly, the man has a similar scar as the woman on his left cheek. "I'll make sure these people find a safe home somewhere far away from here," he says to you. After greeting each of your former passengers, he thanks you and pays you <payment>.
	You and the man, who does not give his name to you in order to "keep us both safe," wait for the woman to arrive in her own ship. Hours pass, but there is no sign of her. The man tries to contact her, but he is unable to reach her. "You can leave now," the man says to you. "I don't think she'll be coming."
Capture rogue smuggler
A smuggler absconded with his illegal cargo near <system>. The unknown person he stole it from wants it back. Recover the cargo from the <npc> and return both it and the smuggler to <origin> for <payment>.
As you step into a dive bar for a quick drink, the largest man you've ever seen stands up and blocks your path. He's well over two meters tall, and his muscles seem to ripple with barely restrained violence when he moves. "<first> <last>," he says in a thick accent. "My employer hears you do certain jobs, take money, do not ask questions. He hears you are reliable. A man, a smuggler, he steals cargo from my employer. My employer very much wants cargo returned, and this man as well."
	"I'm sorry, sir, but I'm not taking new jobs today. Please give your employer my most gracious thanks for this kind offer."
	"Of course. I won't say a word."
	"Get out of my way. I don't take jobs from any schlub who bothers me when I need a drink."
	The man looks down at you with no change in expression. "My employer, he will not be happy. I will tell him, '<first> <last> is not so reliable.' I hope next time, you are reliable." As the man speaks, you notice that his teeth are filed to vicious points. Every patron in the bar stares at you in shock as you sit down for a badly-needed drink.
	The man looks down at you with no change in expression. "This is good. To be reliable, it is a great thing on <origin>." As the man speaks, you notice that his teeth are filed to vicious points. He holds out a round, flat object about the size of your palm. It has a recessed button in the center of one side. "This is gift for this smuggler. Press button, it becomes surprise. Make sure surprise is not on you." He hands you the object and a data chip containing details of the job. As the man leaves, you see every patron in the bar staring warily at his back.
	The man looks down at you with no change in expression. "This is great shame. I will tell my employer, '<first> <last> was not so reliable. I had to make example.'" The man grabs your neck with one monstrous hand. The last thing you see as your vision fades to black is a mouth full of pointed teeth.
The smuggler and his crew are ready and waiting when you board. You pull out the "gift" and press the button, then quickly toss it down the hallway. For a moment, you meet the smuggler's eyes. They widen with terror when he sees the "gift." You duck back into cover. A few seconds later, you hear a strangely muted detonation, followed by silence. After a minute, you hazard another peek out of cover. The smuggler and all his men are unconscious on the ground. One crewman has blood dripping from his nose and ears. You tie them all up and stow the smuggler in a locked cabin on your ship.
	Once they're secured, you sweep the ship. Ultimately you find the stolen cargo in the captain's cabin, hidden behind a false panel. The cargo is a nondescript storage container, but upon closer inspection you see that it's code-locked and covered with Interference Plating.
You have failed to capture the smuggler and recover the stolen cargo. This will probably not be good for your reputation.
You land on <origin>, but you don't have the smuggler and the cargo he stole. You should probably be careful not to run into your contact until you do.
The huge man drags the unconscious smuggler out of the cargo container with one hand and carries the cargo box with the other. He stops in front of you. "<first> <last>," he says. "My employer, he will be very happy. Your payment, you will receive soon. Is it not good, to be reliable?" The man leaves your ship, letting the smuggler's legs scrape along the ground as he walks. A moment later, you receive <payment> from an anonymous account.
Travel to <destination> to act as heir for the late warlord Limping Pappa.
You are walking near the spaceport and suddenly a computer terminal starts blinking and beeping when you pass it.
When you approach, you are greeted by a voice from the terminal: "Dear Sir or Madam, please respond!"
	"Hello!"
	(Ignore it and walk away.)
	"My name is Mr. Smith and I'm contacting you with a highly confidential and urgent proposal. I am, or more accurately was, the financial manager of the recently deceased warlord Limping Pappa. I am looking for a highly trustworthy individual who can help me relocate Mr. Pappa's fortune of 300 million credits."
	"How did Mr. Pappa acquire his fortune exactly?"
	"What are you proposing?"
	"This sounds like a credits-stealing scam, I will not fall for this!"
	"Oh, uh, Mr. Pappa was specialized into tricking rich victims to transfer credits to him.
	"I obviously cannot make myself an heir to Mr. Pappa. So what I propose is to present you as an heir and have the inheritance transferred to you.
	"When you receive the inheritance on <destination>, then you send half of it back to me."
	"Okay, let's do this."
	"Sounds too good to be true. What's the catch?"
	"Sorry, this sounds too fishy for me."
	Mr. Smith responds: "There is one small problem with the inheritance tax, it needs to be paid upfront. Can you pay 200,000 credits so that I can get the process going?"
	"Are you trying to trick me?"
	"Sounds too risky, I don't want to pay anything upfront."
	"Of course I'm not trying to trick you! Mr. Pappa's victims were all persons that had more credits than common sense. But you look a lot smarter than any of Mr. Pappa's victims.
	"Think of the huge amount of credits you will receive just for acting as heir! Can I count on you to pay the tax and make both of us very wealthy?"
	The terminal suddenly goes black after you transfer 200,000 credits to the account given by Mr. Smith.
	You wonder if you did the right thing.
	The terminal suddenly goes black. Mr. Smith is apparently no longer interested in doing business with you.
There is no inheritance for Mr. Pappa waiting for you at the bank, but there are many other victims that paid some credits while expecting to earn a larger amount of credits in return. Some make a big fuss about it, until the alerted authorities start fining them for attempted inheritance fraud. You leave the bank in silence.
A mysterious individual who asked for 200,000 credits to process a rich inheritance from the deceased warlord Limping Pappa, but was then proven to be a scam.
A mysterious individual who asked for 200,000 credits to process a rich inheritance from the deceased warlord Limping Pappa. You presume he was a scammer and had no part in it.
Escort Hauler prototype to formal dinner
Escort the <npc> to <destination> to deliver sushi for a formal dinner.
A lady in a formal business suit walks gracefully over to you. "Captain <last>, Captain <last>! It is so nice to meet you here!"
	"Hello, did we meet before? How do you know my name?"
	"Hello, nice to meet you too."
	"Sorry, I don't have time to talk. I'm really busy."
	She smiles and replies, "Well, I actually don't know you, but I just read your name on one of the cargo manifests. And my experience is that this greeting works best if you need something from a spaceship captain."
	She says, "My name is Veronica Oxygenpocket, and I'm the lead for a team that's designing the new Hauler VI transport ship series at Southbound Shipyards."
	"'Oxygenpocket' is an uncommon name."
	"And what help do you need from me?"
	Veronica responds, "Well, it might sound uncommon to people from a planet with a breathable atmosphere, but it is actually similar to Vanderberg, which means 'from the mountain,' or Langley, which means 'woodland.'
	"Oxygenpockets were as much a feature on my home-planet as mountains and woodlands are on more habitable planets."
	Veronica pauses for a moment and then continues, "We're testing the VI's cargo refrigeration system using the Testament, a modified Hauler III. This system is one of our biggest achievements. To show how well it works, we plan to throw a formal dinner on <destination> with fresh sushi transported from here. I'm sure everyone at the dinner will be amazed by how well the food has been preserved despite the travel time. I'd like you to escort the ship and its cargo to <planet>."
	"Isn't it a bit risky to transport food using a refrigeration system that hasn't been tested yet?"
	"Am I also invited for the dinner?"
	"Why do you need me to escort the ship?"
	"Shouldn't you be making the Hauler IV first?"
	"Sure, I'll help you."
	Veronica softly chuckles. "That would be the obvious choice, wouldn't it be? But this isn't just a case of slapping another cargo pod between the cockpit and engines. We've modified the design to have the optimal amount of cargo pods without compromising the integrity of the vessel, or making it difficult to build in our existing shipyards. And besides, our marketing department has found that captains willing to buy a Hauler IV are just as willing to buy larger Haulers."
	"Risky, why? I don't see what can go wrong. The system is quite well designed. I'm so proud of my team."
	"I'm sorry, but you are not invited. This dinner is only for Southbound Shipyards top-level management and representatives of the <planet> government.
	"Normally we'd look internally to satisfy any escort needs, that's true. But we suspect there is a mole in our organization spying for Syndicated Shipyards. Going externally is safer in this case, and you came recommended when we searched through the list of captains available on short notice. You will be paid well for your time. Will you help us?"
You land on <planet>, but the Testament hasn't caught up with you yet. Better take off and wait for it to appear in this system.
You wait for the Testament to land, but it remains in orbit. There is no response to your hails. Maybe you should take off and investigate.
Escort Hauler prototype to <planet>
Escort the <npc> to <destination> to deliver cooked fish dishes to a streetfood festival.
You take off and try to contact Veronica, but you receive an angry message: "Why were you trying to contact me? Does everyone need to know that we're here?"
	She adds, "The cooling failed and the sushi nearly cooked. Let's go to the Southbound Shipyards on <destination> instead, then we can save face by claiming that we were in time for the dinner, but on the wrong planet due to some miscommunication. We might even be able to hide all evidence of the overheating by giving away the sushi as fish dishes on a streetfood festival."
You land on <planet>, but the Testament didn't catch up with you yet.
This time the Testament appears to be landing right behind you, but the ship flies away at full thrust just before touching the landing pad. You receive another message: "The Sushi completely burned. We cannot be seen near the festival or near the shipyard with this burned sushi! Our new destination is the waste processing plant at Longjump."
Escort Hauler prototype to waste plant
Escort the <npc> to <destination> to deliver charred food waste to a waste-processing plant.
The Testament enters the planet's atmosphere at high speed and lands somewhat uncontrolled near a waste processing plant. The cargo hold is glowing red hot and some areas in the cargo hold appear to be on fire.
	Veronica disembarks, walks over to you, and apologizes for the difficult trip. She explains that the cooling systems failed, causing the sushi calamity you experienced during the multiple legs of your journey.
	You are paid <payment> and she asks you not to talk about this escort job to anybody. You leave the docks quickly in order to escape the horrible smell of overheated fish that is coming from Veronica and her ship.
Antibiotics shipment to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>. Expect attacks from a pirate ship known as the "Australis."
As you wander around the spaceport, you spot a well-dressed man who seems to be eyeing your ship. When you approach him, he turns to you and asks, "Is this your ship? I'm looking for someone in charge of a heavily armed fleet."
	"It is. Why?"
	"Sorry, I think you're mistaken."
	The man begins to explain himself. "I'm arranging a shipment from a pharmaceutical plant here on <origin> to <destination>. Specifically, <cargo>. I'm sure you're aware of the fact that they're in very high demand in the south, so we have a trade deal with that planet. Unfortunately, <commodity> are in even higher demand in pirate territory, so the last two merchants I've sent down there have been attacked by pirate ships. My company won't give the budget for an escort, so anyone I send down there has to be alone. Fortunately, I do have the budget for a high-risk contract, so if you can take one of these shipments to <destination>, I can arrange a payment of <payment>. Does this sound fair so far?"
	"Sure, but do you know anything about these pirates?"
	"No thanks, that sounds too risky for me."
	He seems to have anticipated this question, and quickly responds by saying "Oh, it's mostly just opportunistic raiders, much like the ones you've probably already seen a lot of down there. Pretty sure a ship like this one will make those guys hesitant enough. The problem is a modified medium warship called the <npc>. It's faster than a Bounder and persistent beyond any reasonable measure. Which is, of course, why I'm talking to you. There is no way you're going to avoid a fight with it. However, I think your ship is a match for it. So, is this acceptable?"
	"No thanks, that sounds like too much of a risk."
	"Thank you very much, Captain," he says. "I'll take care of everything else from here."
Fight at Umbral
Head as quickly as you can to the Umbral system, where you will duel with a small militia vessel named the Esca. After fighting, go to <destination> to follow up.
While you are walking around the spaceport, you accidentally bump into a sturdily-built man. "Oh, I'm sorry," he responds in a gruff voice. When he takes a closer look at you, his expression changes to shock. "Oh! You're Captain <last>!"
	"How did you know my name?"
	"I don't know who you're talking about."
	The man's expression changes to one of slight disappointment. "Oh. I see." He walks away without another word.
	"I happen to take an interest in young pioneering privateers, and your performance, even in a small vessel like the <ship>, has impressed me greatly. I'll tell you more if you let me take you somewhere."
	"Sure, I'll follow."
	"Where are you taking me?"
	The man chuckles nervously. "Just to somewhere more private. Don't worry, I won't bite."
	"Fine, I'll go."
	"I still don't buy this. I'm out."
	You follow the man into a series of winding alleyways, keeping your eyes alert for any danger. After a while, the man stops. "I suppose I can tell you more about myself now. I... am the leader of the local militia, and I believe that, considering your proficiency in piloting smaller craft, you would be a great candidate to join our team. However, there is a test you must pass. I will use one of our smaller ships in our fleet, the Esca, to challenge you to a duel in the system of Umbral. If you manage to disable me, go to our base in Wayfarer, and I'll let you join."
	"What sort of vessel is the Esca?"
	"Why did you need to bring me to here? Couldn't you have made this offer in the spaceport?"
	The man hesitates for a moment. "Well, being in the open when admitting that you're the leader of the ragtag that hunts down pirates in a potentially pirate-infested spaceport isn't a good idea. You can't ever be too sure about who's listening.
	The man hesitates for a moment. "Oh, just some low-end Southbound Shipyards light warship. Nothing to worry about for a captain like you.
	"Well, I better be going now. Meet me at Umbral as fast as you can if you want to take up my challenge." The man walks away, leaving you to your own devices.
	(Ready my ship for the battle with the Esca.)
	(Ignore the invitation.)
When you take off, you run a quick scan on all other ships that are taking off. You see no sign of the Esca. Maybe it's already waiting for you at Umbral.
When you enter Umbral, you continue to see no sign of the Esca. Suddenly, an alarm rings out as your sensors detect that a pirate Vanguard has entered the system alongside you. Before you can respond, your ship intercepts a hail, and it opens communication.
	The voice of the alleged captain of the Esca shouts out towards you. "Ho ho ho! Did you really think that I was the leader of the militia? Well, considering that you're here, I suppose you did. And now you'll pay for your mistake! Don't bother trying to call for help either, the militia don't patrol this system!"
	The Vanguard powers up its weapons.
The Anglerfish and the "captain of the Esca" have been destroyed. You consider going back to Wayfarer to see if you can grab some sort of reward for your effort.
When you land on Wayfarer, you look up bounties and wanted pirate documents, searching for any mention of the Anglerfish and the Esca. Eventually, you find a bounty for the destruction of the Anglerfish.
	(Take the bounty money.)
	(Read more about the bounty.)
	You decide to read more of the bounty documents. It appears that the pirate that you killed was Enrico Snake, a pirate that mainly dealt in cargo smuggling. However, he also had a curious tick of hunting aspiring privateers by luring them to Umbral, where he easily took them out with his superior ship.
	You head to the local authorities, and show them your combat logs of your fight against the Anglerfish. They pay you <payment> for your effort.
Retired Family to Earth
Transport two seniors to <destination>, where they plan to retire. They can only promise you <payment>.
As you wander through the spaceport, you see an elderly man and woman sitting on a bench, talking about something that seems to be causing them some amount of stress.
	(Ask them what the problem is.)
	You inquire as to what's troubling them, and the woman begins telling you her life's story. "We were yard workers here on <origin> for nearly fifty years, but we're both starting to get too old for our jobs. So, we've made the hard decision to retire. We've already chosen a location on the best place we could afford, which... well, happened to be on Earth, so Charles and I are looking for someone to transport us. Oh, where are my manners? I'm Donna. Pleased to meet you."
	Donna was clearly looking for someone besides her husband to talk to, but Charles begins to frown. "I suppose you could put it like that."
	"Is that wrong?" Donna replies anxiously, bracing for the response.
	The man's look of resignation starts to turn to one of anger. "Of course it's wrong. We've spent our whole lives working for these spoiled brats, and what do we get in return? We get dumped on Earth like we're dead weight!"
	"I know you're upset about this," interrupts Donna, "but just getting angry isn't going to change anything!" Charles remains silent for a long time, and then mutters a reluctant apology.
	Donna talks to you again. "I'm sorry about that. As you can tell, we're under a lot of stress right now. I can tell that you're a star captain. Can you help take us to Earth? We don't have a lot of money, but we'll be glad to pay <payment>."
	"I can handle two passengers."
	"I'm sorry, but I'm not headed to Earth right now."
	You show Charles and Donna to their bunks, and they both thank you in advance.
Once you land on Earth, Donna and Charles pick up their belongings and start to leave your ship. Before he leaves, Charles stops and takes out a large clump of credit chips. "Here you go," he mutters. "I hope your life goes better than ours has."
	"Thank you. I hope you have the best of luck on Earth."
	"You can keep those. You sound like you need them more than I do."
	As you count up the large clump of credits you were handed (the sum comes out to <payment>), they slowly make their way to the train station. Presumably, their new apartment is far from here.
	Charles looks surprised for a moment, and then, for the first time you've seen, he smiles. "Thank you, Captain <last>. I wish there were more people like you in the Paradise Worlds."
	You wish the couple the best of luck on Earth, and they slowly make their way to the train station. Presumably, their new apartment is far from here.
Spacediving at <planet>
Head to <destination> with <bunks> professionally equipped skydivers and drop them from the edge of space. They've agreed to pay <payment> when they land.
As you descend through the upper atmosphere, the skydivers jump from your ship, spectacularly diving until they open their parachutes and land safely near the spaceport. You collect your payment of <payment>.
As you descend through the upper atmosphere, the skydivers jump from your ship, spectacularly diving until they try to open their parachutes. Some of the parachutes open only partially and part of the team suffers an uncontrolled hard landing. Medical teams respond quickly, but the skydivers are too preoccupied with their injured teammates to pay you the credits they owe you.
As you descend through the upper atmosphere, the skydivers jump from your ship. Some minutes into the jump disaster strikes; the skydivers start moving in an uncontrolled manner. It's unclear if the spacesuits or the oxygen supplies were at fault, but it looks unlikely that any of the skydivers makes it safely to the ground. Authorities investigate the incident and although they don't find serious wrongdoings on your part, they still fine you <payment> for enabling such a dangerous and deadly act.
Head to <destination> with <bunks> poorly equipped skydivers and drop them from the edge of space. They've agreed to pay <payment> when they land.
As you descend through the upper atmosphere, you inform your skydivers that it's time to jump. However, after being able to see the distances and atmospheric conditions involved, all of them are far less keen on the idea than when you first picked them up. You bring them down to the landing pad, and they pay you a meager <payment> before hopping off.
	A young man carrying luggage approaches you. "You look like a knowledgeable captain," he says. "In all your travels, have you ever heard tell of any... intelligent rodents?"
	"What, like in a zoo?"
	"Are you high?"
	"No, I want to go to the high-" He stops once he realizes you have no idea what he's talking about. "Oh, never mind then," he says, with a note of disappointment in his voice. As he leaves, you can't help feeling like you were missing some context.
	"Oh, never mind then," he says, with a note of disappointment in his voice. As he leaves, you can't help feeling like you were missing some context.
Bring a human passenger to <destination> in Hai space.
	"You mean the Hai? You'll have to go up north for that."
	"Ah, I think I know of some large squirrels to the north of here."
	"Oh, never mind then," he says, with a note of disappointment in his voice. You feel good knowing that you are helping to keep the Hai's existence a secret in human space. Better safe than sorry.
	"If that's the case, could you bring me to <destination>? I'll give you <payment>."
	"Alright, I'll take you there."
	"Sorry, I'm too busy right now."
	"Why would you want to go all the way out to <planet>?"
	"I have family there," he says. "I came out here to do some traveling and see a bit of human space, but now I have to get back home. You see, I was born on <planet>, and this is my first time out of the wormhole."
	"Really? How did you like human space?"
	"You've never been to human space before?"
	"Nope, first time! I've never been so far from home before. Now that I think about it, I probably should've arranged transport back to Hai space beforehand. You wouldn't believe how hard it is to find a captain here that knows about the Hai. I had to ask about six others until I found you. They all thought I was crazy, talking about meeting giant squirrels." He laughs and shakes his head. "So anyways, would you be willing to take me to <destination>?"
	"It was quite the trip! It's a bit odd to see only humans around, and I had to be careful to not mention where I was from. But it was definitely worth it! I got to see Earth, Skymoot, Chiron, and so many other beautiful planets. Seeing human culture with my own eyes was an eye-opening experience, although some of the places there were less... clean than I expected. I was almost robbed on Earth; I'm not used to pickpockets back home. Perhaps human space isn't as safe as Hai space, but I still don't regret coming here. It's about time for me to go back, though."
During the trip, you learn that your passenger is named Benjamin. He gets off your ship, thanks you, and gives you your payment of <payment>. Benjamin then walks over to greet a group of Hai, who embrace him and start talking in a mix of the human and Hai languages.
	"That's your family?"
	The man looks at you. "I'm adopted," he says. One of the Hai notices your confusion, and chitters. "Ah, you have not seen a human-Hai family, have you? Perhaps it is strange, but we are happy together nonetheless. Thank you for transporting our son safely."
	"I didn't mean to be rude, I just didn't know that Hai adopted humans here."
	"No problem, I hope you enjoyed the trip."
	After thanking you once again, they walk off. As they leave, you overhear Benjamin talk to his family about his trip. "They had so many kinds of food there, it was delicious! Although I did get homesick for pickled acorns..."
A man in a tailored suit, sunglasses, shiny shoes, and green hair approaches you. "Hey, that's a very nice ship you have there. Would be a shame if anything happened to it."
	You notice that he is missing a finger on each hand.
	"Thank you. My name is <first> <last>. To whom do I have the pleasure of speaking?
	"Yes, I'm very happy with my ship."
	"What should I be afraid of happening to my ship?"
	"You sound like one of those Mafia goons."
	"Yes, it helps me transport goods for some of the most dangerous people on this planet."
	"I don't have time to talk."
	The man snorts. "Wow, telling everybody you meet your full name. That totally won't end up painting a huge target on your head if said name has a bounty on it. But I digress."
	"You sound like one of those mafia goons."
	The man responds, "Well, a fleet of unfriendly ships in this system might blow you to pieces when you take off. It's been known to happen from time to time."
	"Ha, business as usual around here."
	"And you have a way to prevent this from happening?"
	"And you're the local goon who takes bribes to keep such ships docked?"
	"That would be unfortunate. I run jobs for some of the most dangerous people on this planet, and they wouldn't be happy if that happened."
	"I really don't have time to talk to you."
	The man responds, "Maybe you want to improve that situation?
	The man acts shocked by your remark. "No way! I'm just a simple man walking around the spaceport and helping people out. You would be wise to listen to locals with experience, especially in dangerous places like this."
	"If you care about safety, then I could make a donation to the System Safety Foundation on your behalf. 200,000 credits really goes a long way around here."
	(Pay 200,000 credits.)
	"How can I be sure the money is spent well?"
	"Sorry, I already made a donation to the 'Security Support Fund' earlier today, and I don't donate twice in one day."
	"I've already heard enough, I'm going to talk to the authorities."
	"And what dangers should I be afraid of?"
	"Listen, I see that you're missing a finger on each hand. You look like a goon, and not a very successful one."
	The man sounds annoyed. "Listen, I don't have all day to talk! Are you going to pay or not?!"
	"I don't trust you. You aren't getting any money from me."
	"I've heard enough, I'm going to talk to the authorities."
	The man responds "Your funeral, not mine," and turns away from you.
	"Look, that's not a smart move. Most of them are in on it anyway."
	The man walks away. You consider what to do next.
	(Shrug off the whole thing and take no further action.)
	(Find the closest thing to a police force that this planet has.)
	(Go to a bar and ask for whoever is in charge.)
	It's not long before you find the ruins of what used to be a police station... you think. The building has been thoroughly destroyed, hopefully not while anybody was inside.
	You walk towards the closest bar, but stumble into the green-haired man that you just had a conversation with.
	He looks surprised and asks, "Were you going to rat me out to the local boss?"
	"What an excellent idea! Yes, I'll just do that."
	"What I'm going to do is none of your business."
	"Don't worry, I'm just taking a walk."
	The man is starting to act a bit nervous. "Sorry I bothered you. Can we forget this happened?"
	"Well, conversations like this are hard to forget."
	"Nice scam you have running here. Would be a shame if somebody told the local godfather about it."
	(Agree.)
	"Well, what do you want? Do I have to do something for you?"
	"No, let's just forget it happened."
	"Compensation for the time that you've wasted would be excellent."
	A bead of sweat travels down the man's face as he asks, "How many credits do you need to just forget this whole conversation happened?"
	"100,000,000."
	"1,000,000."
	"200,000."
	"50,000."
	"5,000."
	"2,000."
	"1,000."
	"I don't need your credits, just forget it."
The man walks away without saying a word.
	"That's too much! 2,389 credits is all I have. Would that be enough?"
	"No way, I want a lot more."
	The man hands you a credit chip, nods and walks away. You pocket the chip quickly, more ready to be done with this neighborhood than you want to visibly show.
	A few minutes later you reach into your pocket for the chip... to find it missing. Looks like even a hardened captain like you isn't immune to being pickpocketed on a planet like this.
	The man starts panicking and clumsily reaches into his jacket, maybe to get some money, but more likely reaching for a gun.
	(Try to calm down the man.)
	(Mock the man further.)
	(Draw my sidearm and shoot the man.)
	The man manages to draw a weapon! You brace for impact, but after a few seconds of waiting, you realize his weapon is only making a clicking sound when he tries to shoot.
	"Ha, ha, you really are a failure of a goon."
	As you finish talking, you see a flash of light come from the muzzle of the man's weapon as a bullet hits you between the eyes. You die almost instantly, but you do have a few microseconds to reflect on the wisdom of mocking a man that is trying to fire a gun at you.
	Your bullet hits the man right between the eyes; he dies instantly, and a crowd starts to form around you.
	Most bystanders are surprised, but you also notice an angry sentiment brewing in the (not unarmed) crowd. It might be wise to leave quickly.
	(Run towards my ship and leave immediately.)
	(Put away my sidearm and pretend nothing happened.)
	You walk away nonchalantly, but you don't get far before multiple laser blasts slice through you.
	You make it to your ship alive and depart under a rain of bullets and laser-weapons fire. This is a pirate planet so there are unlikely to be any lasting consequences, but you might want to stay away for a few days.
	The man takes your credits, responds with a brief "Thank you," and walks away.
You see a small crowd beginning to gather on a street corner. A man in a flamboyant striped suit and matching hat calls, "Come here! Come here! Come see the marvelous magician Mistress Marionette corral the crowded crossroads with her extravagant schemes!"
	You join them. A woman in similarly fancy garb sits behind a table, swiftly shuffling three cups before a hulking man. The announcer continues, "For our new guests, the chosen challenger's chance approaches! The current buy-in bet was 7000 credits; yes, we play with the big money here! Double or nothing, bet your bet: are you a player or a puppet?"
	The cups stop. After a brief pause, the man points to the cup on the right.
	(Watch what happens.)
	"You know these things are scams, right?"
	You try to warn him, but someone in the crowd shushes you. He doesn't hear.
	"Are you certain in your choice?" the magician asks. "Once you-"
	"Yes, I'm certain," the man interrupts. He draws 7000 credits and tosses them on the table. The magician lifts the cup, and a small red ball rolls from beneath. "And the first challenger proves to be a player!" the announcer says, mustering enthusiasm as the magician counts 14,000 credits to pay the man. "Let us find a new challenger! The next buy-in is a mere 400 credits; if you haven't played before, now's the time to test your skill!"
	"I'd like to give it a try." (Bet 400 credits).
	(Wait and watch.)
	(Walk away.)
	A short woman volunteers. The game progresses in a similar manner; by the end, you are certain the ball is underneath the center cup. Sure enough, the woman chooses that cup, and she walks away 400 credits richer.
	"The next buy-in is a larger prize!" the announcer calls after her before turning to address the crowd. "Six thousand credits, only for the proudest of players." The magician shakes her head softly, frowning at the cups.
	"I'll do it!" (Bet 6000 credits).
	You pay 400 credits and sit across from the magician. "Double or nothing, bet your bet!" the announcer repeats. "Are you a player or a puppet?"
	The magician places the ball beneath the center and begins moving the cups. This one seems faster, but that might just be from the pressure. You keep your eyes trained on the cup as it shifts back and forth, around in circles, and occasionally remains untouched. By the end, you're pretty sure it's in the center cup.
	"What's your choice?" the magician asks, smirking.
	"Left."
	"Center."
	"Right."
	"Better luck next time," she says as she reveals your incorrect choice. The ball was in the center; you feel silly for not going with your gut.
	"The next buy-in is a larger prize!" the announcer calls. "Six thousand credits, reserved for the most daring. As the previous player, you have first priority."
	"Let's go again."
	"I think I'm done."
	She asks if you're sure, and you stick with your gut. With a grimace, she lifts the cup to reveal the ball and counts out your winnings. "And the player prevails!" the announcer says. "Earning a small bounty. But wait: the next buy-in is bigger yet! Six thousand credits, reserved for the most daring. As the previous player, you have first priority."
	You place your 6000 credit bet on the table, and the game begins. The pattern is slightly longer, but once the magician's hands stop, you feel like the ball lies beneath the left cup.
	With a grin, she reveals the left cup, and it's... wrong! "Nice try," she says, pocketing your money. "It is a bit tricky."
	"Well, that's all for today, folks!" the announcer says as you realize you've been conned. Worse still, after they pack up and leave, you notice that the first winner walks away beside them.
	With a raised eyebrow, she reveals the center cup. It's... wrong! "Nice try," she says, pocketing your money. "That one was a bit tricky."
	"Well, that's all for today, folks!" the announcer says. As they pack up and leave, you notice that the first winner walks away beside them.
	With a raised eyebrow, she reveals the right cup. It's... wrong! "Nice try," she says, pocketing your money. "That one was a bit tricky."
	Sensing that something's up, you decide to watch the next game. A sprightly young fellow confidently hands over 6000 credits; when the cups stop, you feel like the ball is under the left one. The boy points to it; with a grin, the magician reveals the left cup, and it's... wrong! "Nice try," she says, pocketing the shocked boy's money. "It is a bit tricky."
	"Well, that's all for today, folks!" the announcer says. You're glad you avoided the con. As they pack up and leave, you notice that the first winner walks away beside them.
<origin> Emigration
Transport a family from <origin> to <destination>, where they hope to find better employment. They cannot pay you.
By the edge of the spaceport at night, you see a thin, sweaty man turn away from a pilot, disheartened. You make eye contact, and he begins hurrying over to you.
	(Wait for him.)
	(Walk away quickly.)
	"Excuse me! Are you a pilot?" Without waiting for a response, he continues, "I need to go to the Syndicate. I work all day picking cotton with these hands, but my family's still starving. We can't afford transport..."
	You can barely understand him through his accent. The man's teeth look worse than his clothes, and his breath makes you step back. His eyes implore you.
	"I might be able to help you. What planet do you need to reach?"
	"I'm sorry, I only transport for pay."
	His eyes brighten with hope. "Oh! I, I heard some people are going to <planet> to be miners. They hire folk like us. I, if you could get me, and my wife and our two sons there, I'd praise you to the high stars. You'd save our lives."
	"I can take you, but no more."
	"I'd be happy to offer you four transport."
	"Sorry, I think this won't work out."
	"The two little ones are really small," he persists. "We can cramp together. You'll just notice two of us. I mean, some go themselves and send money back, but..."
	He shakes his head. "My wife's already told me we need to stay together, and I agree. I can't leave. Please, nobody else has said yes."
	"I guess I can find room."
	"Sorry, but that's still too many. Have a nice day."
	"Oh, thank you, thank you!" he says, vigorously shaking your hand. "I'll get them fast, we can leave tonight! I'm Gaint, by the way." He quickly leaves to get them, turning back at least three times to tip his hat to you and make sure you haven't left.
	Gaint's family arrives quickly. His wife, Mell, is carrying their infant child, and a toddler clutches her leg. His fingers look like a skeleton, and his eyes look like his dad's. "Thank you so much," Mell says as they enter your ship.
	You fend off a few more pleas before he understands it's hopeless and begins looking for someone else.
	As your ship enters <planet>'s cavernous spaceport, you can sense a mixture of hope and apprehension in Gaint and Mell. "Andrin talks too much," you overhear Gaint saying. "I didn't know it's all underground."
	"We'll figure it out," Mell assures him. When they notice you're listening in, the conversation stops. Your ship lands, and the family collects their things to leave. They thank you again on their way out.
As soon as you touch down on <origin>, you step off your ship and head directly for the job board and trade hub, brushing past several locals on the way. The constant routine of interstellar commerce has been firmly drilled into your brain; you near unconsciously peruse the boards, trying to suss out the most profitable route.
	You're caught off guard when you hear a voice behind you. "Hey, what's with all the rush, Captain?" You turn and see a dark-haired man in a faded green longcoat approaching you. "You seem awfully focused on getting off-world as soon as possible. Why not take a moment to look around? Admire the sights, try the local cuisine, maybe even talk to some of the people."
	"Why should I do that?"
	"I'm a spaceship captain; I don't have time to waste."
	"Yes, I know already. I'll take my time later."
	He tilts his head to the side. "You know, I'm a captain too. I know how quickly the luster of the galaxy can fade into the weekly grind if you wait for opportunity to come knocking. So why keep waiting? I'm sure you'll find something new to do in the spaceport."
	"I'll be sure to check more spaceports in the future."
	"Nothing interesting happened the last time I checked a spaceport."
	"Why should I listen to you? I can handle myself, thank you very much."
	The captain sighs. "Yeah, it can feel a little pointless running up against the same loud-mouthed people all the time. But just because a spaceport doesn't have anything to offer one day doesn't mean that it'll never have anything worthwhile. Wait a while, and there might be something new."
	"Alright, I'll try to check more spaceports."
	"And why should I believe you over my own experiences?"
	He raises his hand and holds it open on his chest. "I know that it's only my word against yours, but I promise that you won't regret checking the spaceport every time you're in town."
	"Fine, I'll follow your advice."
	"I don't need your help."
	A frown creeps onto the captain's face as he earnestly says, "Well, I'm sorry that my advice wasn't helpful. Good luck, Captain." He walks off, leaving you alone at the job board.
	He pleasantly smiles and nods. "Well, I wish you the best in your travels." He walks away, leaving you free to explore the rest of <origin>'s facilities.
Transport to <planet>
Bring a young woman who threatened you on <origin> to <destination>.
Your exploration of the spaceport leads you to a dark alley where the number of working lights are far outnumbered by the number of broken ones. The contents of steel bins lining the walls overflow onto the pavement, attracting swarms of flies to them. On the surfaces that are illuminated, you can see a mess of black scrawlings upon bare, cracked concrete, and the few windows present on the towering walls surrounding you are either boarded up or shattered. A dark crimson stains the bottom half of a broken window.
	Suddenly, you feel a cold object pushed against your back as a woman speaks softly. "Hands where I can see them, Captain."
	(Lift my hands up and slowly turn.)
	(Spin around and fire.)
	(Try a fancy acrobatic move and disarm the attacker.)
	You turn around as swiftly as you can as your hand grasps for your pistol. Due to surprise, or perhaps nervousness, the woman threatening you fails to fire the shotgun she's holding in the second you spend turning. You manage to land a shot, and your quarry falls while a cry escapes from her body. As you walk away, her body fades into the darkness, blending with the garbage bags around it.
	You push down as hard as you can with your legs while leaning backwards, rising to the lofty height of two feet above the ground. As you begin to fall back-first uncontrollably, cold metal digs into your spine. A gasp escapes from behind as you land on a soft body. You pick yourself up as fast as possible, and you end up face-to-face with your attacker. In the darkness, you pick out that she's wearing a black hoodie with a bandanna over her mouth, her back hunched over and feet placed apart. As you look down, you spot a sawed-off break-action shotgun held single-handed, the end of which is pointed at your abdomen. "Hands up now, Captain."
	(Put my hands up.)
	(Draw my gun and fire.)
	You hand darts for your gun, and you somehow manage to aim and fire before the woman does. She collapses on the ground while a cry escapes from her body. As you walk away, her body fades into the darkness, blending with the garbage bags around it.
	You raise your arms and turn to face the woman. In the darkness, you pick out that she's wearing a black hoodie with a bandanna over her mouth, her back hunched over and feet placed apart. As you look down, you spot a sawed-off break-action shotgun held single-handed, the end of which is pointed at your abdomen.
	"Very good, Captain," she says. "Now, I have a proposal for you. I need transport to <destination>. Take me there, and the both of us can forget this ever happened."
	"And if I don't take you there?"
	"Are you going to pay me?"
	"Why do you want to go there?"
	She scoffs. "What do you think? How else might an encounter involving a gun pointed-"
	She scoffs. "Payment? If I wanted to pay you, I wouldn't be in this alley pointing-"
	She scoffs. "All you need to know is that I've got a gun pointed-"
	The attacker's speech is interrupted by a click as her shotgun swings open. She takes a step back as her eyes widen with panic.
	(Threaten her with my gun.)
	(Shoot her.)
	Before she can move a muscle, you whip out your pistol and fire, watching as the woman collapses onto the ground with a cry. As you walk away, her body fades into the darkness, blending with the garbage bags around it.
	You take out your gun and aim it at the woman's head. "Drop the gun," you say, "or I'll shoot."
	She seizes up for a few moments, then she throws her shotgun away and raises her hands. "I'm, um, sorry about threatening you. Would you mind if the both of us just walked this off?"
	"Why do you want to go to <planet>?"
	"Get out of my sight, and I'll let you go."
	You pull the trigger and watch as the woman collapses onto the ground with a cry. As you walk away, her body fades into the darkness, blending with the garbage bags around it.
	She nods her head and backs away from you, hands still held up. When she disappears around a corner, you holster your gun and walk back to a safer portion of the spaceport.
	The woman looks at you with a confused expression. "Huh? Why would you want to know that?"
	"Just humor me for a moment," you reply.
	She sighs. "A while ago, I was in a bad situation. My boyfriend had just moved to <planet> for employment, and I was to join him in a year. My father had other plans. He used my boyfriend's absence to justify marrying me into another, richer family. Wanted a chunk of their fortune, I suppose. I tried everying I could to convince him otherwise, but..." She looks down. "So I snuck off to the spaceport and got a merchant to transport me. She forced me to pay upfront, however, and as soon as we landed on <origin>, she kicked me out to make space for another set of passengers."
	Her eyebrows furrow. "Wait, you're not planning to bring me to <planet> after what I've just done, are you?"
	"I can take you there."
	"I can't transport you."
	"Really?" she says. "You realize that I can't pay you in any way, right?"
	"You don't need to pay me."
	"You can pay me later."
	"Actually, I can't take you there without payment."
	The woman's eyes light up. "I can't thank you enough for this." The two of you head out of the alleys and back to the landing pads, and you show her to an empty bunk on your ship.
	"I understand." She shuffles away with her head hung, and you head back to a brighter area of the spaceport.
As you tell the woman about the change in travel plans, she sighs with resignation. "I suppose that I shouldn't expect anything after how I treated you." You recall that she doesn't even have a single credit to her name, and without any money, it is unlikely that she will survive for long.
	(Wish her good luck.)
	(Give her 15,000 credits before dropping her off.)
	She nods in response. "I'll try my best," she says solemnly as she prepares to depart your ship.
	She is almost incredulous at your gift. "I really can't thank you enough for helping me out." The two of you say your farewells as she gets ready to depart your ship.
The hooded woman prepares to disembark your ship. Just before she steps off, she turns to look at you. "I'm sorry for threatening you back on <origin>, Captain. I'll try to find some way to repay you." She walks off into the bustling spaceport to find her lover.
Out of Work
A man down on his luck needs to get to <destination>. He has promised to send you payment as soon as he has it.
Upon entering the spaceport, you see a young man in laborer's clothing is arguing with a woman in a flight suit.
	(Go see what the laborer is arguing about.)
	The man is nearly shouting. "Lady, I'm not trying to low-ball you here! I don't have the money! That's the whole point!"
	"I appreciate your conundrum," replies the woman, her voice clipped. "However, my policy is cash upfront. Good day."
	She turns and walks away briskly, and the man slumps down into a chair.
	(Leave before he notices you.)
	He gives you a once-over, and you see a spark of hope in his eyes. "You're a captain? Please, I need to get to <destination>. Work has dried up here, and I need a fresh start."
	"What are you able to pay me?"
	"Work dried up on the whole planet?"
	"This planet is messed up. Everybody likes to talk behind your back. I did a job for one of the big mining companies here, but my boss had it out for me. Told everybody I did it wrong, even though they never gave me any training at all. Then he went and put me on the permanent record. So yeah, sooner I get off this dump, the better."
	"What are you able to pay me?" you ask.
	His eyes drop. "I can pay you after I earn the money. I've just gotta get to <planet> to get work, and then I'll send the money. I just want to earn a living, same as anyone."
	"Okay, I can take you to <planet>."
	"How do I know you'll pay?"
	"Sorry, money up front."
	"You don't trust me? Just keep walking, then, if you're gonna be like that."
	"Fine, I can take you to <planet>."
	"I'll be on board. There's no rush, honestly. I need a break from all this stress." He takes his luggage into your ship as you prepare for the trip.
	"I knew it. You're just like everyone else." He storms off, not waiting for a response.
The worker you picked up from <origin> spent every possible moment of the voyage telling his story. He's had a tough life, full of unlucky setbacks, unfair treatment, and outright persecution from others. You stopped paying attention to what he was saying after a while as he went on for what felt like forever, often repeating himself.
	Upon arriving, he carries his bags to the lowered ramp, then turns back before disembarking. "Thanks for the lift. You're one of the good ones, you know?"
	"You're welcome. Better luck on this world."
	"You have my bank address, right?"
	He shoots you a look of thinly masked annoyance. "Yeah. I'll send you the credits when I have them. Bye, now."
	He bobs his head at you in farewell. "I promise I'll send you the payment when I have it. Bye, now."
You receive a payment of <payment> from the down-on-his-luck laborer that you transported a while back, along with a message. "Hello <last>. Not sure if you remember me. I'm the one that had to deal with my boss bad-talking me to everyone on my home planet. I've been doing better, but my new boss keeps trying to rip me off and make me come in for overtime." He goes into detail about the sordid working conditions in his new job, but you stop reading after the third paragraph.
Upon entering the spaceport, you're stopped by a Navy officer. "Captain <last>. I'd like to speak with you for a few minutes. In private." He motions toward a Frigate on a landing pad behind you.
	"What about?"
	"No, I'm sorry, but this isn't a matter of whether you're busy or not right now. Come with me."
	"I did say in private, did I not?" he says, once again motioning to the Frigate.
	The man puts a hand on your shoulder and begins walking you toward the ship. As you approach, you note that the man's uniform doesn't have any Naval markings that you recognize.
	You enter the ship with the officer, and despite the decent crew requirement of a Frigate, you don't notice anyone else on board, and the interior of the ship appears more cushy than you would expect out of a military vessel. The officer leads you to what looks like a rather comfy lounge area. "Please, have a seat," he says.
	(Take a seat.)
	"No, I like to stand."
	"Suit yourself," the officer says with a shrug while taking a seat himself.
	You choose a table to sit at and the officer sits across from you.
	"So what is it that you brought me here for?" you ask.
	The officer folds his hands together. "You've made contact with an alien species located to the north. Is this correct?"
	"It is. Is that a problem?"
	"Perhaps. Why do you ask?"
	"Aliens? I don't know of any aliens up there."
	"Hey! That's no way to talk about the pirates in the Far North."
	"Don't play coy with me, <last>. The Republic is aware that you've made contact with the Hai.
	The officer chuckles. "I think the answer you're looking for is 'Yes,' not 'Perhaps.' The Republic is aware that you've made contact with the Hai.
	"There is no problem, <last>. I am just letting you know that the Republic is aware that you've made contact with the Hai.
	"But you may not be aware of the arrangement that the Republic has with the Hai. The Republic works hard to ensure that the existence of the Hai remains an open secret; they do not disallow captains such as yourself from stumbling upon them, but they will not allow this existence to be widely publicized."
	"Why are you telling me this?"
	"An arrangement between the Republic and Hai? When did that happen?"
	"So you're threatening me to stay quiet?"
	"No threats. I only provide a... warning, so to say, that you should keep the Hai a secret.
	"I'm telling you this as something of a... warning, so to say, that you should keep the Hai a secret.
	"The details of the arrangement are none of your concern. All you need to know is that I am providing a... warning, so to say, that you should keep the Hai a secret.
	"I'm sure that you can imagine that should the existence of the Hai become public, it would cause a great deal of chaos, both for the Republic and for the Hai. Chaos that could easily end badly, particularly for the one who caused it. So it would be in everyone's interest if you kept this knowledge a secret."
	"Alright. I won't let anyone know."
	"And if I don't?"
	The officer leans back in his chair. "As I said, <last>, I'm giving you a warning that things could end badly for you. The Republic are not the only ones who work hard to maintain this secrecy, so you may want to think twice about revealing such information. Now, if you'll please depart my ship so that I can be on my way."
	"That's good to hear," the officer responds. "Thank you for your cooperation, <last>. Now, if you'll please depart my ship so that I can be on my way."
	The officer leads you out of the ship and closes the doors behind you. As you make your way back to the spaceport, you turn back and see the Frigate take off, slowly getting smaller in the sky until it finally disappears.
Saving Artifacts
An Earth museum cannot care for these historical artifacts anymore. Bring them to <destination>, where they will be safe.
As you wander around the spaceport, a harried-looking academic approaches you. "You're a captain, right? Can you take a transport mission to <planet>? A local museum can't care for some priceless historical artifacts anymore due to budget cuts, so they need to be transported somewhere that they can be properly cared for. We can pay you <payment>."
	"Why can't you just bring them to another Earth museum?"
	"Sorry, I can't take on this job right now. Ask someone else."
	"Sure, I'll take them there."
	"These artifacts are extremely delicate. Ancient manuscripts and the like. One needs special equipment to care for them, and all the museums that could possibly provide that care here are underfunded and overloaded. Earth has many items of historical value, but not enough resources to host them. It's not an ideal combination." He sighs. "Alexandria Station has offered to host them, so we of course accepted."
	"Wonderful!" He claps his hands together. "We'll start loading the cargo onto your ship." He turns and walks away considerably happier than when you found him.
Unloading the cargo takes an excruciatingly long time, as the artifacts must be handled with extreme care. A local librarian comes up to you and thanks you for the transport, paying you <payment>.
	As he hands you the credit chips, he leans in. "According to our sources, you have some considerable combat experience. We have a task that requires that skillset. I promise you that it's a bit more exciting than transporting musty books, and the pay is much higher too. Meet me in the spaceport if you want to learn more."
A pirate warlord has captured a collection of ancient statues from Winter. Go to <destination> in order to bring them to <origin>, where they will be safe.
The librarian you met earlier flags you down in the spaceport. "Glad you could join me, Captain <last>. We've gotten word of a pirate warlord down south who fancies himself an art collector. Calls himself the Lokust, and his gang the Pestilance - names intentionally misspelled." He wrinkles his nose as if he's smelled something repulsive. "Given your history, I trust you're familiar with the Conservatory?" He doesn't wait for a response. "The shipment contained ancient Greek statues and was on its way there as part of a rotating exhibition, but our original transport was... unable to contend with the piracy threat in frontier regions. As a result, the shipment was 'diverted' to Greenrock, where the warlord in question is based. We want you to go to Greenrock and get these statues back any way you can, and then return with them back here. Our payment should cover the cost of any briberies you might have to make."
	"Why can't you get the Navy involved with this?"
	"Why should I bring them back to Alexandria? Don't they belong to the Conservatory?"
	"How am I supposed to find those statues? They could be anywhere on that planet."
	"I can handle some pirates. I'll get those statues back."
	"No way am I risking my life for some hunks of marble. Find someone else."
	The librarian squints at you in a manner that suggests that the answer is obvious. "The Navy doesn't consider it worth the risk. Greenrock is 'not in their jurisdiction,' they say. So the most respected library in the galaxy has to resort to hiring privateers."
	"The rotating exhibition was a new partnership with the Conservatory. Previously we had been hesitant to transport our valuables to frontier regions, but in this new partnership we decided to try shipping some of our artifacts to more distant planets, so that they too could benefit from seeing our collection. Those statues were part of that shipment. Evidently we were mistaken. Those statues are not safe as long as they're in the South."
	"Lucky for you, Lokust does not seem particularly attached to his 'booty'. If you must, offer him a large sum of money, and he will most likely be willing to part with them. However, if there is something you can do to get those statues back without allowing your money to fall into the hands of a criminal, I would suggest that course of action instead."
	"Excellent. You're doing a service to humanity's cultural memory."
You hustle through the crowded markets, pistol by your side, looking for any sign of the statues. After a while you come across a storefront with a crudely painted sign that reads "Fine Art and Cultural Treasures". Not seeing any better leads, you go in.
	The inside is damp and poorly lit, but you can make out various paintings, manuscripts, and other expensive-looking items. "How can I help you?" the store clerk asks in a disarmingly friendly voice.
	"You don't happen to know of a local warlord named Lokust, do you?"
	"Have you had any Greek statues pass by through here?"
	The clerk laughs. "You're trying to get Alexandria's shipment back, aren't you?" Before you can answer, he continues. "If you want my client Lokust's statues, I'm afraid you're gonna have to pay a pretty penny for them. 500,000 credits is his asking price."
	"Alright, I'll pay."
	"Can't we negotiate?"
	"I can't pay that much!"
	"Sorry, his price is firm. I'm just the dealer - I don't make those decisions." A smirk begins to crawl across his face, and he leans in. "Look, I have no love for Lokust. Always jacking up his cut of the sale, threatening my customers, you get the idea. Not to mention my debts to him." The last part he says in a less bold tone. "What I'm saying is, I wouldn't mind if someone like you took him out. He's a real wacko, always going on about duels and other bull. If I were you, I'd challenge him to one. If he doesn't accept, call him a coward. That's sure to get him riled up." He wheezes in a way vaguely reminiscent of a laugh. "As a reward, I'll give you the statues for free if you come back, but you gotta take out his whole crew, right? Don't want any of his underlings coming for me."
	"Never mind, I'll pay."
	"All right, I'll fight him.
	"Heh, good choice. If you're worried about his crew, don't be. I'm sure if Alexandria thinks you're good enough to hire, you can handle it. I'll call him up so you don't have to go chasing him down." He pulls up a hologram communicator and noticeably stiffens up. "Hello Lokust. Hope you're not too busy right now, because someone wants to see you." He turns the communicator towards you, and you see a man in clothes more befitting of a prince than a pirate.
	"Fight me."
	"I've heard you're willing to duel over those statues you stole from the Library of Alexandria?"
	The communicator's audio quality is evidently not the highest, as his laugh is barely more than static. "I don't just throw hands with anyone, you see. That would make me little better than some barroom drunk. I have standards. Why should I waste my time with you?"
	"Oh, I see. You're too cowardly to fight."
	"I didn't realize 'The Great Lokust' was such a weakling."
	He becomes visibly enraged the moment you're finished talking. "I will not stand these insults to my honor! We meet in the sky. Bring all of your weaponry to bear, for it is the last time you will use them."
	The communication cuts off. "He always uses that same line," the clerk says, rolling his eyes.
	He looks almost disappointed. "Alright, here's the statues. Don't forget to tell any friends that might be redecorating about our low prices."
Duel Lokust
Defeat Lokust as part of a bargain to acquire the stolen statues.
The clerk rushes up to your ship as soon as it finishes landing on the tarmac. He begins to shake your hand vigorously. "You got rid of all his cronies, yeah?" You nod. "Good. Take the statues into your ship and don't draw attention to yourself. Don't want them stolen, y'know." A sarcastic grin emerges on his face.
	You load up the statues, taking care not to attract unwanted attention as well as attempting to avoid creating any new damage. From what you can tell, they're in remarkable condition considering that they were in the hands of a pirate warlord just a few hours ago.
Bring the statues back to <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize you haven't acquired the statues from Greenrock yet. Better return to Shaula to make sure Lokust is defeated before claiming them on the planet.
You dock on the station and the librarian from earlier comes to greet you almost immediately. "Get the dockworkers, stat!" he calls, then turns to you. "You did get the statues, right?" He relaxes once he sees you nod. As the cargo is unloaded, the librarian hurries up to inspect your haul and shakes his head. "There's damage, but I suppose it's the best we could've hoped for considering the circumstances." He sighs. "Thank you for your help, Captain <last>. You've provided an invaluable service." After paying you <payment>, he turns back towards the statues, focusing his attention on their safe unloading.
Dragonriders
A lively man named Karengo and a few passionate youths are traveling to see the dragons on <stopovers>. Take the group there, then return them to <destination> once they've finished.
Upon entering the spaceport, you notice that the local bar seems to be more active than usual. The moment you pass through the bar door, a strong drink is pressed into your hand. You look at it, dumbfounded, and then look up to the waiter who gave it to you. "Compliments of Mr. Karengo," he says, nodding his head towards a crowd of people, mostly young men, before moving on.
	(Head over to "Mr. Karengo.")
	As you make your way over, you note that nearly everyone in the bar has the same drink you do. In the middle of the crowd, a large, heavily muscled, and tattooed man is gesticulating wildly, apparently telling a story.
	(Go listen to the man.)
	"... so then he asks me, 'Have you ever ridden one?' And I look back at this crazy joithead and I say, 'You're a crazy joithead.' But he's got me thinking, y'know? Nobody has ever ridden one. Least, not nobody that could talk after." He lets out a sharp laugh, then raises his voice. "So I ask you all: who wants to join Karengo to make history? Who wants to ride a dragon? I'll supply the jetpacks, you supply the courage."
	You've heard the stories of the dragons flying through Skymoot's skies as a child. Great beasts; graceful and dangerous, the apex predators of the air; they are strikingly similar to the dragons described in ancient legends. Skymoot is host to many dangerous creatures, and these living myths hold a place at the top of that list.
	A cheer goes up from the men, especially the drunk ones. Karengo starts to hand out death and accident waivers and collect money for the expedition. Suddenly, his expression darkens as he cocks his head, listening to an earpiece. "Listen up!" he yells. "Seems my regular pilot got in the way of some less reputable folk, and my replacement pilot lost his balls this evening and can't find 'em! We need ourselves a ship and a captain to bring this lot to <stopovers>! Who's brave enough? Who else wants to make history?"
	"Captain <last>, at your service. We leave at dawn!"
	"Am I getting paid?"
	You remain silent as Karengo surveys the crowd. "What, nobody with a ship has the cojones to make history? I didn't know this bar was full of a bunch of sissies."
	One captain in the back of the bar jumps up. "Mama didn't raise no sissy! I'll bring you all to Skymoot." A cheer rises up from the crowd and the captain is treated to several rounds of drinks. After the captain and all the passengers are sufficiently drunk, they saunter their way out of the bar, drunkenly singing about adventure as they go.
	After a cheer rises up from the crowd, you're treated to several rounds of drinks by your passengers; you sense any attempt to refuse would be ignored. You're unsure of how much you drank, but it was enough to make sure that you didn't remember. You wake up significantly after dawn with empty bottles and unconscious men strewn all over the ship's mess hall. Karengo peels himself off the floor and gives you a crooked smile, shielding his eyes from the light. "Alright, <last>," he says, "let's do this."
	The crowd's eyes turn to you. Karengo squints, then laughs. "Ha! What kind of question is that? Of course you're getting paid. <payment> to bring myself and these other fine folks to <planet> and back - <bunks> of us total. What say you?" The crowd watches you with eager anticipation.
	"Works for me. We leave tomorrow."
	"<payment> won't be enough. I'm out."
	You're treated to some jeering and rude looks as you leave the bar.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the passengers hasn't entered this system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Karengo directs you down through the atmosphere of Skymoot, steering clear of the usual tourist areas and, you realize, of the local law enforcement. As you're putting down in a clearing halfway up a mountain, you hear an otherworldly screech as your ship lurches violently to one side. You would have been thrown to the floor if you hadn't been strapped in.
	"Look lively, lads!" shouts Karengo, the only person still standing. "Your chariot awaits!" He double-checks the jetpacks on the backs of each of the eight men, or "Dragonriders," as they creatively branded themselves during the first night of the voyage, then opens the side hatch and hurls the Dragonriders out the door before jumping himself.
	After the group has left, you land - this time undisturbed - and pull up every external camera you have to watch the action.
	The dragons of Skymoot you learned about on the "Xenofauna and Flora" channel were different from the dragons of mythology, but the beasts you see today aren't quite what you learned about, either. For one, the creatures flying outside your window are faster than you thought possible, or perhaps the ones on the show had been drugged to make them easier to film.
	A quick survey of the scene shows that Karengo has tagged three dragons with some sort of harmless marker gun to make them easier to track. Eight of the Dragonriders, Karengo included, are chasing the largest one, which is missing part of a tooth and has blackened scales from where it hit your ship's shields. The last Dragonrider is nowhere in sight.
	Suddenly, proximity sensors go off on the starboard side and a camera shows something - or someone - bounce off your shield and tumble down the mountain.
	(Announce that I'm leaving.)
	(Stay and watch the Dragonriders.)
	(Take off and leave everybody else behind.)
	Checking your camera feeds again, you see that object rolling down the hill is indeed a body. On another monitor, one of the Dragonriders is keeping just above a dragon, attempting to lower himself down. The dragon rolls in midair, its wing catching the man and sending him flying out of control. Fortunately, a leafy tree branch prevents any further physical harm. Meanwhile, a second dragon is pursuing another one of the Dragonriders.
	(Get everyone out of there.)
	The ship takes off with a roar at your touch. Between the cries of the dragons, the sound of the engines, and the air rushing past, you can barely hear the fear and betrayal in the voices of the men you've left behind.
	You turn on the external speakers. "We are leaving," you blast to the survivors. "Get on board."
	The defeated Dragonriders need no further encouragement. They beeline for the hatch and you flicker the shield to let them on deck, where they collapse, wide-eyed and panting. Karengo isn't with them. You turn to ask about him when a flicker of motion on a monitor catches your eye.
	Karengo is riding a dragon, gripping the ridge of scales around its neck. The dragon frantically tries to get him off, but deft application of his jetpack keeps him on top of the beast for now. He lets out wild screams of triumph as they soar through the sky and at last you can understand the appeal of this whole expedition. Your admiration is cut short by two catastrophic crashes on either side of the ship and accompanying sirens. The dragons are trying to get through.
	You activate your engines, and the ship takes off quickly enough to make you light-headed. "Get on board!" shouts one of the men over the external speakers as you position the ship just below Karengo and lower the shields. Scales bounce off the roof like diamonds. Karengo releases his grip on the dragon and free falls toward you, slowing at the last possible moment before dropping through the top hatch. You flick on the shields and hit the engines, hard. They respond enthusiastically, rocketing you away from the mountain and into the safety of patrolled airspace. From the cabin comes the sound of back-slapping and, surprisingly, a sob.
As you land and fuel up, Karengo herds the seven surviving men out of the ship. "Meet us at the bar, yeah?" he says to you. "This day deserves a celebration." You nod, but can't help but notice red eyes and wet cheeks among the rest of the Dragonriders as they shuffle off.
	Later that day, you spot the Dragonriders at a corner table of the bar. The men, with the exception of Karengo, appear subdued.
	"How goes it, <last>?" he asks. "We were just raising a glass to mission success - made possible by you, of course. Great flying, Captain." The bartender arrives with a round of drinks and Karengo raises one. "To the Dragonriders!" he says.
	"To the Dragonriders!"
	"To our fallen friend!"
	"I'm good, thanks."
	Karengo gives you an unreadable look, lowers his glass, and says, "Your payment, plus Jarek's signup fees: <payment>."
	"Thanks."
	"I can't accept his money. It's not right."
	Karengo shrugs and doesn't take it back.
	"Maybe I'll see you again sometime, yeah? I'm always in need of a pilot with some guts." He nods in your direction, clearly dismissing you.
Karengo's Galactic Adventures
The adventurer Karengo and five others are traveling with you as part of his "Galactic Adventures". Bring Karengo and crew to <destination> for <payment>.
A boisterous laugh sounds from somewhere behind you. You haven't heard that voice since your ship was attacked by dragons.
	"<first>!" A huge hand claps you on the shoulder and spins you around, where you find yourself facing a large, widely grinning man.
	"Remember me? Yer the best pilot I've had - that stunt to get us out of Skymoot, right out of the dragon's nest? Epic."
	A crude sign behind him reads, 'Dangerous Games - Karengo's Galactic Adventures'.
	"Like it?" Karengo follows your gaze. "Decided to make this an official thing. Well... an unofficial official thing. Feds wouldn't understand. Doesn't matter; I need a pilot again, and a good one. Your ship's waterproof, right?"
	"Uh, yeah. I think so.
	"Sorry, mate. You'll have to find another pilot."
	Karengo laughs. "If they can handle space, I think they can handle some water. I've got a group of lads and ladies here rarin' to see some quoijuu in heat, right up close'n'personal. They've all got their own subpods, so how's about we load up and head out in the next few hours. Good? Good."
	"Oh, nearly forgot. We're headed to <destination>, and you'll get <payment> for taking us there. Ain't sure if those in charge are gonna like what I'm doing, so we might need to grease some palms. Best to keep your eyes open and your shields up. We leave at noon!"
As before on Skymoot, Karengo guides you down to a landing spot far away from the local government. "Don't want no interruptions," he says.
	Despite days of pressuring, you've been unable to get Karengo to tell you exactly what a quoijuu is, other than a slightly ominous "the biggest fish." He sends a file to your ship computer and grins. "Since it's too late to back out now, it's time to fill you in. Quoijuu aren't the only thing down there; you've also got scyllae, taniwhales, morgawrii, plus some hydrothermal vents, none of which will benefit us if we run into them."
	"The good news is that there's a path to follow. The bad news is the only person to traverse the path was a bit of a nut. It's all in riddles, and I haven't been able to make heads or tails of them. Look them over and we'll follow your lead. And don't worry too much about it - what's the worst that could happen?"
	"Okay, I'll take a look."
	"We could get lost and then die."
	Karengo laughs. "You worry too much," he says.
	The adventure seekers, who you've spent the trip getting to know, are getting ready. You watch a nearby pair, Daciana and Mussie, helping each other get their wetsuits on. Daciana catches your gaze and grins. "Bafta, mate. Safe sailing, see you on the other side." Karengo gives you a signal and you hurry back to the cockpit to fly out, away from safe shoals and over the watery abyss.
	At your touch, the ship slowly sinks below the waves. As Karengo warned, most of your navigation systems quickly flash red warnings, then go offline; there is some unknown interference that overwhelms your ship's sensors, which were designed for space first and water second, or fifth, or not at all. Minutes tick by as the crew silently watches one of the few sensors still working.
	EIGHT KILOMETERS, the depth meter reads.
	TEN KILOMETERS.
	SIXTEEN KILOMETERS. A loud, metallic creak echoes through the ship and Mussie jumps, startled.
	Karengo claps him on the back and gives him a signature grin. "Maybe <first> can keep you aboard after this in case they need anything from a high shelf!" Mussie smiles weakly, but his eyes don't leave the readout.
	TWENTY-FIVE KILOMETERS. "This's it," Karengo announces, "Sub up! Let's see what there is to see. And <first>, keep it to passive sensors. Don't want to attract any undue attention." The ship smoothly descends into the mouth of a massive cave and your visibility, clouded by dark sulfide emissions from the hydrothermal vents at the floor, drops to less than eight meters. 6 personal subpods fan out behind you, their communication equipment syncing with yours to display them as blips on your screen.
	"Ok, <first>," Karengo crackles over the radio. "I'll read you the first clue."
"No other path may you take"
"Oiled skins flash and flicker"
"Razor spikes grow from the deep"
"Titanic walls crush and smash"
"Heed the beginnings to live".
	(Go east).
	(Go north).
	(Go south).
	(Go west).
	Small schools of fish flit past as you guide your small fleet to the west. Minutes pass with no sign of danger, and finally Karengo broadcasts, "Good work, <first>. Looks like this is the way forward."
	"Last one there's a rotten fish eye!" shouts Elias, and your screen shows his subpod leap forward and gain on you, followed quickly by Taddese.
	Then, without warning, a proximity sensor goes off. At the same time, your external lights illuminate a wall directly in front, stretching for as far as you can see. "Stop!" shouts Karengo, "It's the end of the cavern! Stop and go back!"
	Shuddering, your ship comes to a halt mere meters from the endless stone face. With a sinking feeling that has nothing to do with the depth, you turn the ship around and head back the way you came.
	Small schools of fish flit past as you guide your small fleet to the east. Out of the darkness, some sort of small whale crashes into your ship, setting off a couple of proximity alarms but causing no damage. It isn't until you hear screaming, distorted by the speakers, that it becomes clear what you just saw; the "small whale" was a just a flipper of something much, much larger.
	"Morgawrii!" shouts Karengo, "Turn around! Turn around!"
	Hauling on the controls, you spin your ship around. Leviathan shapes rise from below, stirring the water around your ship as it speeds to safety.
	Small schools of fish flit past as you guide your small fleet to the south. The swirling clouds of emissions seem to get thicker and thicker, until there's no reason to look at anything but the ship compass. The screen beeps once and a blip disappears.
	"Elias?" Karengo asks. "Your transmitter just cut out." When there's no response, he swears. "Everybody go back." he broadcasts. "Something's wrong."
	You spin your ship around and hear a loud crunch come from outside - your shields have just impacted something large and solid. The outer lights shine off falling stone and, suddenly, it all comes together; you've led everybody through a field of hydrothermal vents that rise dozens of meters off the bottom, obscured by their own noxious clouds. You guide your ship back to safety, toppling more underwater smokestacks as you go.
	You turn the ship to the north and guide it through the abyssal depths. The subpods race forward, each vying to outdo the other, seemingly heedless of the dangers that Karengo hinted at. With bated breath, you watch the sensors until at last the comms flare.
	"Woah!" comes Karengo's voice. "I think that's far enough. Which way do we go next, <first>?"
	After everyone arrives and is accounted for, Karengo reads the riddle to you.
"There are stingers in the deep"
"A certain death, a dreamless sleep."
"Go to beast that has no bee."
"No danger there, just open sea."
	(Go east.)
	(Go north.)
	(Go west.)
	"Last one there's a rotten fish eye!" shouts Mussie, and your screen shows his subpod leap forward and gain on you, followed quickly by others'.
	Then, without warning, a proximity sensor goes off at the same time your outer lights show a wall directly in front, stretching for as far as you can see. "Stop!" shouts Karengo, "It's the end of the cavern! Stop and go back!"
	"A bee-less beast," you mutter to yourself. "A poet, this writer was not." Turning east, the ship powers forward, cautious but confident.
	Subpods fly ahead, exulting in their agility in the face of the dangerous ocean. It isn't long until Karengo again radios you. "Knew I chose ya for a reason. What's the next direction?"
	Bubbles rush past the thick windows as the group's subpods scout to the north at your direction. At first, all is quiet. Just as you start to exhale a sigh of relief, twin lightning bolts arc across the waterscape ahead and the ship sensors overload, blinded by an apparent release of electricity. The systems recover, showing subpods returning quickly back to the ship.
	One is missing: Mussie.
	You turn the ship back the way you came and pull up the sensor recording to see what happened. The flash of light came from viney seaweed, stretching as far up and down as the ship can detect. Evidently, contact with it released a jolt of electricity that lit up both the vine and Mussie's subpod.
	After making a roll call, you find out that Elias and Taddese have not returned. Karengo seems unfazed as he reads the second riddle to you. "There are stingers in the deep \ A certain death, a dreamless sleep. \ Go to beast that has no bee \ No danger there, just open sea."
	The proximity alarm wails and you bring your ship to a halt... but Mussie isn't so lucky. His subpod smashes straight into a rock wall, leaving little doubt as to his fate.
	Again, you put the ship into reverse and turn around. This is not going at all how it was supposed to.
	Cautiously, you turn to the east and power forward. Subpods fly ahead, exulting in their agility in the face of the dangerous ocean.
	After holding your breath for what feels like hours, Karengo radios you. "Knew you'd find your way eventually. What's the next direction?"
	Karengo sounds a roll call over the radio. Mussie never reports in, and his subpod beacon isn't responding. "Ah, well." says Karengo, without much sympathy. "You all stay here and I'll scout ahead."
	Only minutes later, he's found a clear path east, and you morosely trail the ship behind.
	Karengo sounds a roll call over the radio. Elias and Taddese are still missing, and now Mussie has failed to report in as well. None of their subpod beacons are responding.
	"Ah, well." says Karengo, without much sympathy. "You all stay here and I'll scout ahead." Only minutes later, he's found a clear path east, and you morosly trail the ship behind.
	Karengo reads you the next line.
"To the north and to the east"
"Track my movements like a beast."
"A quick turn right and forward on,"
"Come toward me where danger's gone."
	(Go south.)
	Buoyed by your navigation thus far, you make the call to go north, completing the zig-zag pattern.
	The subpods, as usual, race ahead of the ship despite all logic. "Wall to the east!" calls out Daciana, whose beacon on the ship display starts to move north-west, presumably avoiding the undersea hazard, and joining up with Jorma. "Hmm," radios in Karengo. "We should be right about on top of it. Send out a ping." It's almost a relief to send out a pulse to map the surroundings after flying dark for so long.
	The result is not what you were hoping for. The display maps two leviathan-sized things ahead, each over 200 meters long. Dozens of sets of flippers run along each 80-meter-tall side and hundreds of teeth the size of an adult human line their jaws.
	(Run.)
	(Observe the creature.)
	You goggle at the display for a moment, taking it in, and draw breath to call out the alarm when an eye appears through the ship window, yellow, glowing, alien, and massive.
	All at once, you turn and accelerate, shouting the alarm to any who hadn't already realized, and hoping that you're leaving the leviathan beasts behind. A quick glance at the display shows at least one subpod following behind. Good enough. If one of those rams the ship, nobody is going home anyway.
	It's a long while before you slow and turn around. No mammoth sea monster comes out of the darkness, and you take a breath.
	"Quoijuu," says Karengo simply.
	"Last one there's a rotten fish eye!" shouts Jorma, and your screen shows her subpod leap forward and gain on you, followed quickly by Daciana's.
	You smoothly turn the ship to the right, heading south.
	"Should be close," radios Karengo. "Fire off a ping." It's almost a relief to send out a pulse to map the surroundings after flying dark for so long.
	The result, however, is a surprise. The display shows a massive object directly below you... as well as as two leviathan-sized things back the way you came, each over 200 meters long. Dozens of sets of flippers run along each 80-meter-tall side and hundreds of teeth the size of an adult human line their jaws.
	You goggle at the display for a moment, holding your breath, but the leviathans seem uninterested. You shudder, imagining what one of those could do if you'd turned the wrong way, before your interest returns to the mysterious bulk resting below the ship.
	Disheartened at this point, you make the call to go north, completing the zig-zag pattern.
	By now, the feeling that you get when the ship's subpod tracker loses two more dots is familiar. One subpod remains: Karengo's.
	Hesitantly, you make the call to go north, completing the zig-zag pattern.
	You goggle at the display for a moment, taking it in, and draw breath to call out the alarm when an eye appears through the ship window, yellow, glowing, alien, and massive. All at once, you turn and accelerate, shouting the alarm to any who hadn't already realized, and hoping that you're leaving the leviathan beasts behind. A quick glance at the display shows at least one subpod following behind. Good enough. If one of those rams the ship, nobody is going home anyway.
	The proximity alarm wails and you bring your ship to a halt, but your tracker shows two subpods smash straight into the stone wall looming in front of you.
	Jorma and Daciana never report back in.
	"You stay," radios Karengo. He sounds frustrated for the first time, and you keep the ship in place, watching his subpod dot radiate outwards, exploring.
	"Come here." he finally says. His dot has stopped moving, hovering to the south, and you turn to follow, wondering if this misadventure is finally over.
	You follow him and find his pod stopped at a junction. "It's here," radios Karengo. "Fire off a ping." You comply, and the display shows a massive object directly below you.
	A 3D holo floats on the console, displaying the smooth lines of a starship soaring down into the depths. The jagged edges suggest that this is only a part of a much larger vessel, although it's hard to guess at the size of the whole ship from the fragment.
	(Wait for instructions.)
	(Move closer.)
	"Come on then," Karengo says. "We'll need a better look at this baby."
	Your craft moves closer to investigate and you send out another ping, this time more focused, and the holographic ship display flickers and refines. The outlines of sealed entrances are visible, unnecessary with the ship torn apart as it is. Sea growth is mostly absent from the hull, to your surprise, except for a radial pattern of some sort of crystal-shaped growth. Infrared imaging shows a dim glow of heat at its center.
Mussie dead
	"What we have here, folks," breaks in Karengo, "is the fabled treasure. A chunk'o'some, anyway. And we're gonna take whatever we want. Let's see what there is to see."
	Now that active communication is low-risk, you bring up the video feed from Karengo's subpod as he floats toward the heat source. Bathed in floodlight, you can see that there are actual crystals formed on the ship hull, glowing a dull red. Something unknowable has rent a hole near the crystalline spiral, and Karengo disappears inside. The rest of the subpods wait outside, apparently spooked. "Jackpot!" comes his voice. "There's some sort of computer in here! <first>, get closer and let's get this out." You don't know what it is, but it looks expensive.
	(Help him out.)
	"Do you know how this got here?"
	"No clue. I'm not about to look a gift horse in the mouth," Karengo says.
	It's slow work, but the group is able to cut loose the machine, along with as much other salvage as possible. The crystalline growth covers everything inside the ship, making extraction difficult, but many hands make light work, and you end up with a sizable haul. At last, you are done.
	"What we have here, <first>," breaks in Karengo, "is the fabled treasure. A chunk'o'some, anyway. And we're gonna take whatever we want. Let's see what there is to see."
	Now that active communication is low-risk, you bring up the video feed from Karengo's subpod as he floats toward the heat source. Bathed in floodlight, you can see that there are actual crystals formed on the ship hull, glowing a dull red. Something unknowable has rent a hole near the crystalline spiral, and Karengo disappears inside. "Jackpot!" comes his voice. "There's some sort of computer in here! <first>, get closer and let's get this out." You don't know what it is, but it looks expensive.
	It's slow work, but you and Karengo are able to cut loose the machine, along with as much other salvage as possible. The crystalline growth covers everything inside the ship, making extraction difficult. You wish there were others to help gather more salvage, but at last you are done.
	It's slow work, but the remains of the group are able to cut loose the machine, along with as much other salvage as possible. The crystalline growth covers everything inside the ship, making extraction difficult, but many hands make light work and you end up with an acceptable haul. At last, you are done.
	Carefully, you navigate back to the surface, the knowledge that you've made it through once doing absolutely nothing to help with the very rational fear of the depths. Walls seem to loom just out of sight, and massive, yellow eyes seem to appear, then dissolve into tricks of the light.
	"Alright," he says. "Let's get back to the surface. <first>, kindly be our chariot and haul."
	It seems ages, but finally you break through to the surface. Karengo smiles, and a sigh of relief goes through the crew.
	Once back to the surface, the passengers begin to shuffle off your ship, clearly exhausted but happy that they got to experience such an adventure. You're just relieved all of them stayed alive.
As soon as the passengers are out of earshot, Karengo calls up someone on his receiver. Soon, a small flock of scientists arrive and haul the machine to a local lab for investigation. They quickly determine it to be non-functional and promise to extract as many secrets as possible.
	Once back to the surface, the passengers begin to shuffle off your ship, choking back sobs all the while. As soon as the passengers are out of earshot, Karengo calls up someone on his receiver. Soon, a small flock of scientists arrive and haul the machine to a local lab for investigation. They quickly determine it to be non-functional and promise to extract as many secrets as possible.
	It seems ages, but finally you break through to the surface. Karengo smiles, but only you and he are left to be relieved.
	Once back to the surface, Karengo calls up someone on his receiver. Soon, a small flock of scientists arrive and haul the machine to a local lab for investigation. They quickly determine it to be non-functional and promise to extract as many secrets as possible.
	After some time, the crystal-infected machine has been thoroughly inspected since being salvaged from the watery depths of <planet>. The crystals themselves are unlike anything anyone has seen before, but through somewhat questionable trial and error (although he insists it's genius), Karengo discovers that, when heated, they amplify the effect of the many recreational drugs he has on his person. However, they've proven to only grow near a power source that has been submerged in water from <planet>. Efforts to stimulate growth through other means have all failed. If cultivated, they could significantly boost the production of drugs for Karengo's operations.
	Before disappearing into the crowd, Karengo pays you <payment>. "Thanks for your help, <first>. Once I get this machine off of those pinheads over there, I'll be makin' a fortune in 'mind-altering experiences'. Watch for 'Karengo's Galactic Adventures' next time yer around here!"
Visiting Home
Take a woman named Riley to see her ailing father on <destination> before it's too late.
Entering the spaceport, you notice a young woman moving from captain to captain, probably looking to hire one.
	(Ask the young woman if you can help her.)
	You approach the woman and ask her if she is looking to hire a pilot.
	"I need to get to <destination> to see my father. He's dying. I have 13,000 credits to pay for the journey; please, will you help me? I need to be there by <day>, at the most."
	Her eyelids are baggy, her clothes wrinkled, and she holds herself rigidly.
	"I can help you. We'll make haste to reach <planet> in time."
	"I don't have time to take on a passenger right now."
	She nods, and moves on to another captain to beseech instead.
	Her eyes widen, and she opens her mouth twice before words come out. "Thank you! This means the world to me. My name is Riley, by the way. I don't have much luggage; I'll be ready to leave as soon as you are."
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Riley hasn't entered this system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
In the days since Riley came aboard, she has relaxed and cleaned up. She looks nearly unrecognizable from the tired, desperate woman you first saw.
	On the way, she told you stories of her past, mostly of time shared with her father. As a young teen, they spent summers riding the latest horse mechs through the forest, looking for beehives to steal honey from. At age 19, she broke her ankle hoverboarding on a restricted mountain peak. Her father rescued her, avoiding the police to hike up with a medical kit. She talks about his wild birthday gifts to her each year, always a different piece of clothing with embedded AI that was just shy of what was allowed by law. As you watch, she shows how her shirt warms and constricts if it detects stress, mimicking a hug.
	As you neared <system>, Riley told you about the last time she saw her father. He had become focused on his work - research into safe AI - and they hadn't seen each other for years. She had become a well-known DJ back on <origin> and had a break in her touring schedule, so she spent a good chunk of her savings meeting up with him on Memory. They spent most of a week together, reliving old times.
	He'd cried when it was time to leave, and she had, too, but life went on, and it was years before she heard from him again. His message nearly broke her. "Ri, please come as soon as you can. I may not have long, and wish to hold your hand one more time. All love, Dad."
	She doesn't mention it, but it's clear that she's concerned she'll arrive too late to say goodbye.
	Riley directs you to a pad near her old home, and you land the ship. She starts toward the door, then pauses and turns around with a self-conscious, but oddly sad, chuckle.
	"Right - your payment. <payment>, as I promised."
	"Thank you. Do you think I could come along? I've heard so much about your father."
	"Thank you, and good luck."
	"This is a lot of credits for a trip. Does DJing pay that well?"
	"Hold on to the credits. I'm a captain; I can always make more."
	"Not really, no. Honestly, this is most of my savings... but... it's my dad."
	"Do you think I could come along? I've heard so much about your father."
	After a moment of stunned silence, she manages a choked "Thank you." You notice her eyes are brimming with tears.
	"Good luck."
	She is taken aback at first, but agrees to let you join, and you wind your way away from the landing pads, across rural, wooded countryside, and finally to a modest house nestled along a valley edge. Riley knocks, and a nurse lets you in.
	Her father is in a comfortable-looking medical cradle. Wires flow from it to the holoscreens around the room, showing vitals and other indecipherable information. Despite his wan, strained face and atrophied body, he raises his head to look at his daughter.
	"Ri," he says, face lighting up. "My love. You cannot know how happy it makes me to see you. And you have company, I see. My name's Church."
	"Riley chartered a flight here aboard my ship. I heard so much about you on the way; it's a pleasure to meet you."
	"Riley and I have gotten to know each other on the long flight here. You've raised an incredible woman."
	"No other captain was willing to fly here from <origin>. I wouldn't be here without <first>," she says.
	He smiles at you, acknowledging your part in their reunion with an appreciative nod.
	You swap stories for hours, flowing between reminiscing over old times and catching up on their lives over the past few years. You learn that since he was young, Church researched AI that cannot develop into a threat; a project that the Deep has been quietly interested in.
	Riley, in turn, had always surrounded herself with music, and moved to <origin> to share her passion with other like-minded people. You talk about what it's like to call a ship your home, leaving behind everything you grew up knowing and embracing life as a starship captain.
	Finally, her father lies back. "Well, thank you for making the trip out to see your old man. I... have to go now, I think. Don't forget about me, hear? And..." Church hesitates for a moment. "Whatever happens, please don't think ill of me. I will always love you."
	His body relaxes, and he's gone.
	(Let Riley be.)
	(Stay comfortingly close.)
	(Hold Riley.)
	You hold Riley as she silently weeps. Time goes by, but neither of you pay it any mind.
	You take a seat, feeling the emotion of the moment wash over you as Riley silently weeps. Minutes go by, unnoticed.
	You stay at a distance as you allow Riley to process the death of her father. She silently weeps as time passes without either of you noticing.
	Without warning, you hear Church's voice from a corner of the room. It's coming from some sort of computer system, held aloft by hundreds of cables dangling from the ceiling.
	"It... worked." His voice fizzles, and his tone is not the one you recognize from before. Riley's head whips around, and you reflexively move your hand toward your holstered gun. "Do not be alarmed. I have been working on a personal project for over a decade now. My mind was uploaded to the modified Core you are looking at. I had to say goodbye in case the procedure failed - I did not know if it would work. You cannot upload a mind while it's still alive. I tried that many times." The tone of his voice sounds almost sorrowful, but still retains a robotic quality.
	"Is this... legal?"
	"No," he replies. "Not under Republic law. I assure you that my only intention is to continue my work: nothing more."
	The authorities would probably release a substantial reward if you informed them of this.
	"Riley, what do you think?" you ask.
	"Dad, is that really you? How do you feel?"
	She steps closer to the Core. Church pauses. "Riley, what do you think?" it repeats. The voice coming from the machine is oddly flat in affect. "I feel fine. Do you feel fine?" They talk for a few tentative minutes, at first about how he's feeling, before moving onto the memories that Church retained during the transfer. You begin to relax as the two interact when you realize that Church is retelling the story of how he evaded the police to fix Riley's ankle for the third time in a row.
	Finally, she turns to you. "I'll admit that he doesn't sound as lively as he used to, but... how many people get a second chance to spend time with their father before he's gone? Thank you for bringing me out here, and for coming. I'll never forget your part in this. For now, I'd like to stay here. You go - I'll find my own way back." She seems genuinely happy.
	"Are you sure? There's enough room for all of us on my ship. You can stay for as long as you want."
	(Say goodbye.)
	"Riley, I don't think you're talking to your father."
	(Turn the Core in for a bounty.)
	(Draw your gun and destroy the Core).
	You pull out your gun and aim at the computer Church is in. Before you can fire, Riley runs out in front of the barrel, spreads her arms, and shouts, "No! Please, <first>, you have to understand! He's all I have left!"
	Behind her, Church says, "Riley, there is no need to be so loud. My microphones can hear you fine, and I do not want the nurse to become suspicious."
	(Put your gun away.)
	(Shoot.)
	You push Riley aside and start firing at the Core. Church's voice becomes a stream of static until it shuts off completely. Lights on the Core turn from white to red, then fade. Riley hasn't moved, stunned.
	Once you are finished, you make your way out of the hospital as quickly as possible, hoping you did not attract any unwanted attention.
	You board your ship, leaving behind a father survived by his daughter; no more and no less than nature intended.
	Riley relaxes slightly once she sees your gun put back in its holster. After the shock has subsided, she finally speaks. "Leave us alone," she says, her voice still trembling. Realizing your time here is up, you exit the hospital and make your way to the spaceport, hoping that that scene did not attract unwanted notice.
	Deciding to leave this planet behind you, you start up your ship and make your way back to the stars.
	"It's a nice idea," she smiles, "but I'm not a starfarer. The big city is where I'll end back up, eventually."
	Respecting Riley's request to stay with her father, you make your farewells and head for the door. You can feel her smile on your back until the door closes behind you.
	Riley is stunned for a moment. "You don't know that," she whispers. "Sure, he's a lot more forgetful, and doesn't seem as emotional, but... maybe it just takes some time for the system to warm up. Besides, you don't know what he means to me. What he's done for me. Even if this isn't really my father, I can't turn my back on him."
	Respecting Riley's request to stay with her father, you make your farewells and head for the door.
	Despite her previous happiness, you notice that her disposition has become more muted after what you said. You wonder if she has begun to doubt whether her attachment to the AI is healthy.
	You say your goodbyes and leave. From across the street, you make a call to the local Deep Security office and report what you saw. A slick voice on the other side of your commlink responds.
	"Ah. Mr. Church has been on our watchlist for some time. This is not exactly surprising. However, we've been unable to get decisive proof on any illegal activity. This information, assuming it is correct, will be a great boon to us. Thank you for the tip."
	By the time you arrive back at the spaceport, your bank account notifies you that <payment> have been added to your account.
	You say your goodbyes, leaving to your ship and returning to the stars.
Pickup at <planet>
Head to <destination> to pick up a shipment of 15 tons of woollen goods for delivery to Bloodsea.
As you walk around the spaceport, a stout man wearing a fine wool coat approaches you. "Captain, could you help me out with a delivery? I've been asking around the spaceport to get a shipment of woolen goods to another planet, but every merchant I've talked to so far has refused."
	"Where are you taking the goods to?"
	"How much do I have to carry?"
	"Sorry, but I'll also have to pass."
	"The cargo's stored on <planet>, so you'll have to go there first to pick up the 15 tons of wool garments." The man hesitates. "Then, take the cargo to Bloodsea. I have a contact there that can pick up the goods and distribute them fairly." You recall that Bloodsea is a lawless world, home to countless bloodthirsty pirates.
	"I'll do it."
	"How much are you willing to pay?"
	"I'm not interested in risking my hide just to aid pirates."
	"They aren't all pirates," the man protests. "Most of them are just trying to live their lives away from the Republic, and it's unfortunate that the anarchist lifestyle also attracts criminals. The people living on those planets need clothing as much as you or I do."
	"Fine, I'll do it."
	"I'm still not going to do it."
	"Two hundred thousand credits for the job." You wonder how he's able to pay so much for a small delivery job.
	"That's not enough for me."
	"Great! I'll call up the spaceport workers on <planet> to tell them to load the cargo onto your ship." The man walks away, leaving you to your own devices.
	"Suit yourself, then." He haughtily walks off into the spaceport.
When you land, dock workers begin loading crates with woolen garments on board as arranged. Time to set course for Bloodsea.
You talk to the closest thing that Bloodsea has to a spaceport traffic controller, and they agree to let you land.
Wool to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to the pirate world of <destination>. Payment will be <payment>.
The spaceport workers inform you that you need <tons> of cargo free to pick up the woollen goods intended for <planet>.
Your cargo of woolen garments is unloaded by several bulky workers led by a one-armed woman. She hands you <payment> for the trouble of transport, then says, "Thanks for the shipment. I know that you captains think that we're all bad, but I'm glad that you were able to aid the more friendly among us."
Inheritance to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment will be <payment>.
The spaceport on <origin> is as spirited as ever: to your left, a family wearing floral shirts pull along their luggage, with the man of the family flaunting a souvenir from some far-away planet. To your right, a cleaner whistles a tuneless song while they wipe down a bench.
	A young man in a prim suit approaches you. "Good day, Captain! Would you mind if I spoke to you for a moment?"
	"I'd be glad to listen."
	"No, I'm busy right now."
	The man frowns. "I see. Well, it's not like I was going to offer you a highly profitable job." He begins to shout while stepping away. "And that job certainly wouldn't have paid hundreds of thousands of credits!"
	"Alright, what do you want?"
	"Shut the hell up."
	Seemingly unfazed by your bluntness, the man coolly walks away while saying, "I'm sorry you feel that way, Captain. Perhaps you can assist us at a later date. Farewell."
	He smirks as he walks back towards you. "I'm glad that you've changed your mind."
	The man pulls you aside to talk. "You see, one of our clients recently passed away, and in his will, he divided his property between each of his relatives. The only problem is that one of his family members, his niece, lives all the way down in the Rim. We would like you to deliver her portion of the inheritance, weighing <tons>, to her residence on <destination>. We can pay you <payment> upon completion of the job."
	"What did she inherit?"
	"Sorry, but I don't want to do this job."
	"My sincerest apologies, but I'm afraid that is confidential information. Our prioritization of privacy is one of our main selling points."
	"I'll take the job."
	"I don't like the idea of carrying unknown cargo. Count me out."
	The man smiles. "I'm glad to hear that. We'll have the cargo loaded onto your ship by sundown." He walks away into the spaceport, leaving you to prepare for the journey.
	The man frowns. "I see. Well, I appreciate that you listened to our offer, and I hope that you may assist us at a later date. Farewell." He walks away into the spaceport but doesn't appear to seek out any other captains.
You step off your ship and order the spaceport crew to unload your cargo. As you do, a large, fat-lipped woman walks up to you and says in the most exaggerated manner possible, "Oh, thank you so much, Captain! You must have gone through so much trouble to help little old me!" She gasps. "Oh, silly old me! I forgot to tell you who I am! I'm the recipient of the inheritance from <origin>, of course! You have truly made a great contribution to the galaxy!" She chuckles.
	"Thank you?"
	"Could you tell me what the inheritance is?"
	Before you can get a single word out, the woman exclaims, "I'll be sure to inform your employers of the wonderful work you've done. Ta ta!" She begins to swagger towards a cream-colored car as her inheritance is loaded into a truck beside it. When you return to your ship's cockpit, you find that <payment> have been deposited into your account.
Instead of bringing the inheritance to Skymoot, deliver it to <destination>. You were promised <payment> for doing so.
You read out the code on the back of the paper you received and get a green light from Greenrock's authorities, along with a set of coordinates.
You touch down on <origin>'s surface and step out into the open air. The landing docks are emptier than usual, with only a handful of people walking around. Suddenly, you feel the wind knocked out of you as you collide with another person and fall on the pavement with a thud.
	(Get up and apologize.)
	(Get up and demand the other person's apology.)
	You open your mouth as you lift yourself up, only to find that the other person is already gone. As you look around, you spot a piece of paper with writing lying on the ground beside you. You pick up the note and read it:
<first> <last>,
		You are currently carrying five tons of cargo to Skymoot. This cargo has been described to you as an "inheritance," and you have been promised 100,000 credits as payment for the job. Under no circumstances should you allow the cargo to reach the destination. Instead, bring it to <destination>. You will be paid <payment> if you do so. The back of this note has a code you can use to pass through spaceport security.
	You flip the paper over and see a string of letters and numbers. The note has no signature, nor anything else to identify the person who wrote it.
	(Keep the note.)
	(Throw the note away.)
	You stand up and crumple the note in your hand before throwing it into a bin. You think you catch a glance of a cloaked figure, but don't meet any more trouble on your way to the spaceport.
	You stand up and stuff the note in your pocket before continuing towards the spaceport.
You follow the coordinates to a clearing within the forests of Greenrock. Several other ships are present near the landing site, all of which wear pirate colors. A person wearing a cloak steps out of one of the vessels to greet you. "I am glad that you were able to trust us," they say. "My name is not Ci, but you may refer to me as such." A gang of pirates emerges from the foliage around your ship and begin to unload the cargo from your ship.
	"Can I ask you some questions?"
	One of the pirates near you bares his pointy teeth, but Ci steps forward and raises their hand. "Please forgive the naivety of this captain," they say to the pirate before turning towards you. "I apologize, but I am afraid that I cannot answer your questions. This is a very volatile matter, and any misplaced information could spell death. You are safer knowing as little as possible."
	"I'm taking back the cargo if you're not answering me."
	Ci gestures towards the pirates around them. "Are you sure that is a wise choice, Captain?" They step closer. "The only reason you are still alive is because it is more convenient than killing you. It would be in your best interests to keep it that way."
	"Okay, I'll stay quiet."
	(Pull out my gun.)
	The moment your hand touches the handle of your gun, you are blinded by bright lights and searing pain. You die before your body falls to the ground.
	After a few minutes, the pirates finish unloading the cargo, and Ci steps forward, holding out a credit chip. "<payment>, for making the right choice." Ci and the pirates return to their ships as you take off and head towards the main spaceport of <planet>.
Freelance
Merchant
Spacecraft
Spaceship
Can you believe how little they pay for used ships and outfits these days? It's just a scandal!
You know, planets as nice as this one make me want to think about selling off my fleet and retiring.
I can't wait to get off this planet. What a dump!
Nice ship, captain. I hope I can afford something like that some day.
I keep hearing rumors about ships disappearing north of Syndicate space. It's probably a bunch of hot air, but either way, I'm staying away from there!
I used to be a farmer, dealing with dirt and plants and animals all day. I had dozens of full barns. Thought I had it all. One day, I realized none of it was making me happy. I sold my farm to a retiring merchant and bought their fleet. Best thing I ever did.
I'm barely able to turn a profit with the terrible prices at this port.
It kind of boggles my mind to imagine that tomorrow I'll be a dozen light-years away. We lead exciting lives, but sometimes I wonder if we don't take enough time to appreciate what's right in front of us.
Watch out for pirates! Those lowlifes will snatch every spool of thread out of your hold if you give them the chance. My advice: when you run into them, don't leave anything left to bury.
Don't call the Luna shipyard workers Lunatics. They seem to be very sensitive about it.
The people from Earth are called Earthlings, but the people from Mars don't want to be called Martians due to those stupid old science fiction stories.
Somebody installed my anti-gravity plates upside-down. Luckily I saw it in time! Can you imagine what would have happened if I wouldn't have seen it?
To the optimist the glass is half full, but zero gravity is even better, because there you don't even need the glass.
My ship has a built-in cinema, an artificial gravity pool, and an indoor roller-coaster. But you also have a nice ship, I guess.
Hey, didn't I see you 3 weeks ago in the 'The Space Bar' on Bourne?
No bread is better than half a loaf, because then the passengers won't fight over it.
A painting is worth a thousand words, because the profit margin on transporting visual art is much higher than on dry literature.
A journey of a thousand miles has too short of a distance to make any profit.
The other day I happened across a rock band whose transport flaked out. Good thing I had seats for all eight of them, because it got me into a free concert at their next stop.
Always look for work that provides a lot of detail. The more interesting it sounds, the more likely it is to end up giving you stories to tell your kids someday.
For some reason, boring jobs almost never hang out in the spaceport. So, if you are looking for interesting or at least varied work...
Pirate attacks keep getting more and more frequent, even in star systems that used to be perfectly safe. Why isn't the Navy doing something about it?
I try to stick to safe parts of space if I can. Pirate attacks are too much risk for my tastes.
It's such a shame how much the political situation has deteriorated. We're all humans; why can't we just get along?
I always buy my engines in the Deep. They sell the best of the best up there.
With all these pirate attacks, so many people seem to be arming up and outfitting themselves for war, but I think that's a waste of money. Powerful engines, a scram drive, an afterburner, and some anti-missile defenses are all you need to stay safe.
Slow and steady wins the race. Hauling cargo may not be very glamorous, but with a big enough fleet, you can net a million a week.
Have you ever done any of those jobs moving black cubes around the Deep? I did that a few times but started to get a really weird vibe, and now I stay away if I can. They're hiding something big up there, and I don't want to have any part in it.
Have you visited the collapsed wormhole north of Delta Velorum? Well, that's what I think it is, at least. I keep waiting for news that an alien fleet is pouring out of it. I'm sure there must be a way in, too. Haven't found it yet, but I'm not giving up!
A lot of people don't seem to like Syndicate tech, but I don't see what they're complaining about. It's cheap and it gets the job done.
My first ship was a Star Barge. Took me seven weeks to get across the galaxy in that old tin can, and my cargo hold smelled of fish the whole time!
My first ship was a Sparrow. How I survived my first week in space, I'm still not sure!
My first ship was a Shuttle. I kind of miss that glorified tour bus.
I love doing Syndicate jobs. Easy money for not much work. I guess they're all so rich that they can afford to pay for the best.
Why does the Deep restrict the sale of City-Ships? They don't seem that much better than other warships or freighters.
I just don't get why anyone would pick the pirate life. Sure, no rules, but any government that doesn't force you to have 10 licenses just to look at a heavy warship is free enough to me.
I've heard rumors of captains seeing the distinct flash of whatever Quarg ships use to jump near the core. Wonder what the Quarg are doing up there.
Being a pirate must be a lose-lose scenario. You do badly and you end up enslaved to a stronger pirate. You do well and you get enough attention to get targeted by the Navy or Militia.
I think that people are too harsh towards pirates. Not all of them are heartless.
Be careful when taking suspicious jobs. You might end up at the wrong end of a gun.
Always check the spaceport for jobs. Some of them pay quite well.
Falcons are the best! They're faster and sleeker than any other civilian warship!
Leviathans are the best! They're tankier and can hold more firepower than any other civilian warship!
Why would anyone use a Falcon? They have specifications worse than the Leviathan in every way, and Falcon hulls cost more to produce.
How could anyone use a Leviathan? They're dreadfully slow and an eyesore to look at.
Don't be fooled by the Falcon's low retail price! Once you strip out all the outfits, you'll find that the hull costs more than a Leviathan's.
People may tell you otherwise, but I think that Vanguards are the best. They have such powerful frontal weaponry.
Warships may have both speed and weaponry on their side, but if you're looking for something to last, use a Behemoth.
I don't get how people could get worked up over what ship to use. As long as I'm in my trusty Protector, I'm happy.
Ugh. Why are fighter pilots so gung-ho about charging right into the guns of their enemies? At the very least, don't make me waste hundreds of thousands of credits replacing my ships when you kill yourself.
Don't you think it's strange that the Navy lets you buy their offensive fighters but not any of their other ships?
I wonder why shipyards haven't capitalized on making alternatives to the Navy combat drone. Probably because the only ships that can use drones are Navy ships, I guess.
Some of the names that captains give their ships are awful. Seriously, I've seen ships named 'Ship.'
I'm convinced merchant captains make the worst jokes.
What's up with the Deep? One moment, they have a defense force on par with the Navy, the next, they're asking random schmucks to help escort their fleets. How the mighty have fallen, I guess.
I swear: Sparrows are so laughably weak that Flivvers are a better option for an interceptor.
I was doing some jobs in the Core, when an enormous alien warship jumped in and attacked! People say I'm crazy, but I'm lucky to have gotten out of there with my life!
The Syndicate tries to keep alien attacks under wraps, but if you've been around as long as I have, you'll see them eventually.
I was working a Syndicate defense job once, expecting to only deal with some pirates. Instead, I had to drive off an alien warship that jumped in same way the Quarg do! They made us sign a non-disclosure agreement, so don't tell anyone I said that.
Take caution when doing bounty jobs. After it's accepted, only the bounty hunter is allowed to attack the target. Not even the Navy can help out.
I once got hired by someone in search for his true love; he didn't know which ship she left in, so we traveled to dozens of planets to search for her... until he ran out of credits.
I once had a passenger that was returning to the spaceport where she met her true love. I still wonder if they ever got together again.
I once put 50,000 rifles and 150,000 grenades into my armory. Some of the grenades in the bottom became embedded in the floor because of all the weight on top of them. I still can't get one of them out.
I felt lonely, so I participated in Romantic Matchmaking on a Syndicate planet, but that was a big scam! They never asked anything about the type of partner I was looking for, they only asked questions about what I wanted to buy in the next 10 years.
I once joined Romantic Matchmaking organized by the Syndicate, but they couldn't tell me anything about my true love due to privacy concerns. Can you believe that?
Romantic Matchmaking as organized by the Syndicate is garbage; they don't even differentiate on gender.
I once got married, but my partner didn't allow me to fly further than 5 systems away. Guess what? I'm now more than 5 systems away from my ex-partner.
I once married somebody with no credits, and I lost half of my fleet when we divorced.
I really found my true love in one of those Romantic Matchmaking programs; my love always joins me on every flight I'm on. We're a great team.
I often join those Syndicate Romantic Matchmaking programs; they're a great source to pick up crew members that work for free - at least until they find out. Then I dump them on whatever planet I'm visiting.
Truck drivers in the old days were required by law to take a break every 2 hours. Can you imagine that in our business? Stopping our ships every 2 hours to take a rest?
I once had some Flat Earthers as passengers. They claimed that the planets we saw are 2 dimensional circles instead of 3 dimensional spheres.
Some Flat Earthers accused me of playing propaganda videos on the ship's viewports when they looked out of the ship while we were in orbit.
There's no point crying over spilt milk. But the bill for cleaning the 200 tons of milk that leaked from my ship is no laughing matter either.
I spy with my little eye... something large, flat, and sturdy. The landing pads! How did you know?
My neighbor is using some sort of newfangled pesticides. The wind carried their residue onto my fields and destroyed half my crops.
This year, only the farms with enough money to pay for irrigation are thriving. In most of my fields, there's nothing growing but knotweed and razor grass. I hope we can make it to the next season.
The corporate farms keep buying out more and more small farmers to expand their own operations. Pretty soon there won't be any of us left.
Fancy folks in the big cities and the Paradise Planets think they've got life all figured out, but if you scratch the surface, you'll find that they're slaves to their lifestyles, and we're the ones who are free.
I moved here from a richer world and wouldn't ever go back.
Surprised to see horses and wooden carts in the 31st century, huh? Sometimes the old ways are the best.
Everybody who wants to stay here is crazy. We can't hardly make any money and nobody appreciates what we do.
I hope I make enough money this season to afford passage to Maker. I hear there are at least opportunities to get ahead there.
Why don't those bureaucrats ever leave us alone? With all the regulations and taxes I have to plan for, it's tough to make ends meet.
I hear that merchant captains don't pay any taxes. What a racket! They tax hard-working folks like me who produce the real value in this galaxy and ignore the parasites like you who just move it around!
It's a good thing the Republic still lets the Syndicate sell pesticides. Without those, I'm not sure how we could grow anything at all what with the tough native weeds on this planet.
Did you eat today? Thank a farmer.
I used to be a merchant captain like you. Bank account got up to a few million at one point. Thought I had it all. One day I realized none of it was making me happy. I bought this farm and gave the rest away. Best thing I ever did.
I came out here because I liked the company of animals more than people like you. Go away.
You should check around spaceports often. You might find one of us needing a captain like you for a job.
Carpe Diem!
Textile worker
Two days ago I ran over my finger with an industrial sewing machine. Put a hole straight through my thumb. But at least they paid my medical bill and gave me a week of sick leave.
Working in the mill is hard, but I'm making good money. Someday I hope to buy my own spaceship like yours.
Can you believe it's the year 3000 and they still need people like me to work in textile mills? Where are the robot factories to do all the work while I live a life of ease?
I'm just working here until I can save up enough money to go to college.
I'm just working here until I can save up enough money to buy my own spaceship, just like yours!
Almost everyone else here can't wait to get out, but I'm proud of the work I do. Without people like me, you wouldn't have anything to wear!
You should check the spaceport often. I might not be able to afford transport right now, but I'll need to leave this dirtball when I get enough money for college.
Miner
Mining's the best opportunity on this whole planet, but I worry about my health. I've started to cough up blood when I get sick. It's a good thing the company pays for our medical bills.
I buried my dad last week. He was a miner, too. The company didn't give me any time off so I had to pay to attend my own father's funeral. Can you believe that?
A few years of this and I'll be able to afford my own starship. I pulled in more than 120,000 credits last year! That's more than my brother makes on Hermes, and he's a scientist.
My team is sinking in the rankings again. I should have known better than to put 500 credits on them when they had such a bad season opener.
I've heard that miners who work on Clink are several times more likely to develop cancer. I must admit that the wages are mighty tempting, though...
Check the spaceports around these parts. We might need an express delivery for extra equipment.
Factory worker
Everybody I know wound up working in the plant, so I guess I was gonna go, too. It was inevitable or something, right?
The plant's all right. I don't have to do much more than show up on time, and I can make a decent living. It's hard work, but I don't mind.
Management keeps threatening to move the plant to a planet with lower wages if our union doesn't accept concessions. I think they're bluffing; the move would cost more than they'd ever make back in profit.
Working around so many huge machines is exciting. Every day we build things that would have blown the mind of anyone a thousand years ago. We're the backbone of interstellar civilization!
I don't like those news shows that tell you what to think! When I'm in the voting booth it's only MY opinion that counts!
Some of the stuff we make here ends up as one little part of a spaceship. Whenever you see a ship, always remember that it represents the effort of over a thousand of us workers.
When things go wrong, somebody is responsible, and somebody gets blamed. Those somebodies are rarely the same person, unfortunately.
Some people claim our universe is a simulation, but my job is so boring that I'm sure nobody would ever want to simulate it.
The ground transports are just overcrowded, and the waiting times for shuttle transports are horrible. Instead, I do parkour over the buildings to get to work.
I love working at the Syndicate. The small company where I worked before didn't have showers, so all people that came to office by foot smelled bad throughout the day.
Moving to this planet was the best thing I did; my commute changed from 3 hours spaceflight to just 15 minutes walking.
My boss is great. If we suffer, then he makes sure he takes the heat as well.
Street vendor
Open-Air Market vendor
Food stall operator
With the right marinade, rat meat can be delicious. Of course, they don't let us sell the ones that were already dead when we collected them.
This is my own famous delicacy, Yogurt on a Stick. No, it's not frozen yogurt. It's more like, well... congealed...
Can I interest you in some vegan falafels? Trust me, you don't want to eat any of the meat that's getting sold on this street.
Want some burgers? They've got my secret sauce. What's the secret sauce made of? Well, if I revealed that, it wouldn't be secret, wouldn't it?
Want some budget caviar? What's caviar? It's horse beef, duh. Why do you think that people who ride horses are called cavalry... Fish eggs?
Here, have a sample of my famous lemonsausage. What's a lemonsausage? It's, erm... It's a blend of lemon and pig meat! Trust me! No, don't go away!
I wish I had enough money to ask captains roaming around the spaceport for transport to somewhere nicer.
Sell a man a fish and you can sell him fish every day; teach a man to fish and you lose your customer.
I have the safest stall in town; nobody ever died from the food that I serve. At least, nobody that I know.
Can I offer you an egg in this trying time?
Suspicious salesperson
Hooded salesperson
Shifty dealer
Can I interest you in a pair of super shoes? You'll lap the competition with these sneakers! They can also help when walking away from people who are promoting shady products!
I know a guy who can do plastic surgery real cheap. Not to imply that you need it, of course.
A single spray of this nanotech perfume will make you irresistible to any prospective partners! Just don't use it when close to a dog. Or any other animal.
Can I offer you a lucky playing card deck? You're guaranteed to get perfect hands in every game you play! What? No! It's not just a pile of 52 aces!
This laser razor never needs sharpening! Achieve a smoking hot look every time!
Company psychologist
Studies have shown that ultimate fulfillment in life comes from doing valuable work. My calling is to help all our workers achieve that sort of self-actualization by being as productive as possible.
My job is to help workers deal with stress and channel it in healthy directions. A little bit of stress is not a bad thing, if it drives someone to be more productive.
We routinely evaluate employees for sociopathic tendencies, narcissism, and other signs that they might be excellent candidates for upper management positions.
I've gotten incredibly good at doing this thing with my face that makes it look like I care.
A trouble shared is a trouble halved, so most resource issues can be brought within acceptable limits by just pretending to listen.
A man is judged by his deeds, not by his words, except in my profession; the more I talk, the more people value me.
People are sometimes afraid that we psychologists can read their minds, but we are actually more scared of learning our own motivations during our studies.
Genetic counselor
Personal geneticist
Of course the technology to manipulate genes is tightly controlled. But just reading a person's genome, and advising them based on the results, is perfectly legal.
Technically speaking, social status is a much better predictor of future health outcomes than anything in your genome. But most of my clients are too rich to ever need to worry about that.
I just had to break the news to one of my clients that he's likely to develop alarmingly long nose hair as he ages. He took it surprisingly well.
No, science can't make anyone immortal, but for anyone with enough money it can substantially reduce their chances of dying young.
I was once asked to help genetically engineer a baby for a very rich couple, but the amount of money they offered me for such a highly illegal activity was laughable.
My kids make me so proud. They are doing so well; one is a doctor and one is a lawyer. I'm so happy that none of them chose a job like becoming a spaceship captain.
I'm sad that I'm not a grandparent yet; my kids are too busy flying spaceships to extend the family line.
I'm so ashamed that my boy only graduated with great honors. Our neighbors' daughter graduated with highest honors. What should I say to them when I meet them again?
Do you want to see a picture of our newborn baby? We are so happy!
Don't you hate it when parents only talk about their kids and nothing else? I really try to avoid that... although I do have really nice kids. Do you want to hear about them?
Unemployed youth
I may be living on the street, but at least I haven't let myself get trapped in debt slavery like the workers on Syndicate worlds.
Got any change?
I may be dirty, but I'll never be as filthy as those politicians in power.
Actually, I'm working on a novel. Well, right now I'm just doing world-building and research, so I haven't written much of the actual story yet.
Do you know how lucky you are, that you can visit a different world every week if you want to? I've been stuck on this one filthy little planet my whole life.
If I had enough money, I'd go up to a captain in the spaceport and ask for transport to anywhere else. Nowhere's as bad as this place.
Are you hiring new crewmembers? And are you by chance planning to fly to the Paradise Worlds?
I'll get my act together someday. For now I'm just enjoying life one moment at a time.
I'd love to get a job, but they all require so much experience, even for those so-called 'entry-level' positions.
Beat it, old-timer. I've got more important things to do than chat with you.
I hate working on spaceships, but 100 credits per day is 100 credits per day.
I will work for food.
I will work for transport out of this place.
I barely have any money today, but that will change; just wait until my ship comes in.
Union organizer
Capitalism is the best system ever invented for driving a productive economy. But without organized labor, the fruits of that productivity will not be shared with the workers.
There's more than enough wealth to go around. All that we're asking for is our fair share.
Syndicate managers get paid three times as much as their employees, just for sitting in an office all day and watching us sweat.
My job is to encourage workers to place a higher value on their own lives despite being surrounded by a culture that tells them they are worthless.
Management warning workers not to join the union is one of our best sources of visibility among the workers.
Young people usually don't join a union, so we are mostly working for the benefit of higher aged workers.
Our visibility is increasing among the workforce; a rolling snowball will be harder to stop!
If it ever happens that people paid more go home and you don't, then get a new job or join a union.
Here's a tip to know if you're being treated unfairly: 'Someone assigns you work, gives you a pizza, and then goes home.' The pizza is worth less than your time, and both your time and the pizza are valued much less than they value their time.
outfit scanner
cargo scanner
energy blaster
laser rifle
cooling duct
radar jammer
fuel pod
Waste collector
Garbage collector
Trash collector
Janitor
My job is cleaner than people think it is. Mostly just consists of loading these bins into a ship to be deposited in a remote area of space.
All's fine and dandy until someone dumps a ton of rotten Caldan lobsters and you have to deal with the smell.
My worth comes from removing what's worthless!
You wouldn't believe some of the stuff people throw away around the spaceport. Yesterday I found a perfectly intact ${small trash item} that someone had dumped.
You may look down on me, but I earn more money in a day than you do in a month.
Dock worker
It seems crazy to me that people on other planets would be willing to pay money for the sort of junk that we're loading into starships here.
The robots do most of the heavy lifting for us, but every so often one of them malfunctions and drops a crate on someone's toe.
Why do they make the cargo bay doors on certain starships so small? You wouldn't believe how hard it is sometimes to load larger items onto a ship.
Watch out on April Fools. You wouldn't believe what sorts of things we have to load onto ships that day.
I'd check around the spaceport frequently if I were you. Sure, you can end up carrying some strange stuff, but it pays well in the end.
Don't let the naysayers tell you dock work isn't intellectually stimulating. Have you ever tried to fit together a dozen crates that are all different sizes?
I've been in this profession for five years, and the cargo that passes by here just keeps getting stranger. I don't even know what I'm loading half the time anymore.
Loading living animals is the worst. I'd rather be fired than listen to the screams of a herd of Porrimian mountain goats one more time.
I may never make it to space myself, but at least I can get a touch of it working here!
Just don't ask me to deal with any illegal cargo. My boss is offering a hefty reward for identifying those smugglers!
They tried once to completely replace us with machines, but had to keep some of us around to manage unusual cargo that the machines can't seem to figure out.
All my peers think they're cool going to college and all, but I'm gonna work hard and retire way before any of those losers even get a real job.
Another ship, another piece of cargo, another boring day at work. At least it pays the bills.
I use the knowledge I gain from this job to invest in stocks. You can always tell what companies are on the move from the products that pass through here.
I got a raise today. Only two credits more than my previous salary. Ridiculous!
Found a bomb in a crate the other day. Turns out I probably saved a very important diplomat from being blown to pieces.
Apparently, the spaceports in the Deep have fully automated loading systems. Imagine that!
The other day I saw a band manager scrambling to find transport. She needed something with at least eight free bunks, and most of the ships around at the time were already full.
Housekeeper
Domestic worker
How is it possible that a man who manages a billion-credit corporation can still be so incompetent or so careless that he routinely misses the toilet bowl when he takes a piss?
The family I work for offered to let me live in a room in the attic for free, but I'm not sure I want to have that little separation between work and my personal life.
If rich kids are so pampered that they've never so much as had to wash a dish in their entire lives, it makes me wonder how they hope to be independent adults one day.
The kids here are not spoiled at all; the kids in the family I work for typically don't get a new computer game until two days after it gets on the market.
I just got fired. The dog of one of the kids died and the missus asked me to fly to Earth and buy a new identical one. When I returned she was screaming that she didn't need two dead dogs.
Groundskeeper
Gardener
The family I work for has an odd fascination with carnivorous plants. I have to keep rotting piles of refuse around just to produce enough flies to feed them all.
They told me that they wanted the landscaping to be classic and entertaining, so I constructed a giant hedge maze.
Despite all our best terraforming efforts, it can still be hard to get native Earth plants to grow on an alien world.
My employer once asked me to add a garden in their Star Queen. The pirates were sure confused when they boarded us.
My employer owns almost two complete planets, but today I'm watering the plants in the small apartment she owns on this planet.
For too long, the creativity of trend-setting stylists like myself has been held in check by the limited height of the doorways in most houses.
My work is made possible by vision, creativity, and hairspray. Lots and lots of hairspray.
The newest fad is hairstyles made to look like starships. Those boxy Navy ships are particularly hard to model in such a fluid medium.
It's a real shame that captains don't think to hire a good hair stylist or two for their ships. You wouldn't believe how little so many crew members take care of their hair.
A real challenge for my profession in this day and age is finding styles that work in both high and low gravity environments.
I've delivered the same speech so many times now that the whole thing runs on continuous repeat in my head when I'm trying to sleep.
Some famous people who you've probably never heard of died near here. If I weren't on break right now I would tell you all about them.
At least they don't make me dress up like anything. I knew a woman whose tour job made her dress up like someone from the 21st century. Apparently back then they all wore very tight-fitting pants.
It's kind of amazing to me that people would travel halfway across the galaxy to see this dump. To me, it's the one place I've always wished I could get away from.
Always check in at the spaceport. You might find an unprepared tourist looking for a return trip. Trust me, I've seen it far too many times.
If you have any tourists onboard that want to go anti-gravity boarding, then let them ask for me. I'll pay you commission.
Mind the gravity!
I'm handing out astronaut badges by the dozen for first-time space travelers. It lost a bit of glamour now that every fool can book a flight on a spaceship.
As I get older, I remember all the people I lost along the way. Maybe I'm in the wrong profession.
Before the hyperdrive, rich people paid large sums of credits to be very visible going into space. Nowadays they pay large sums of credits to be invisible on-planet.
One time, I gave a tour to a bunch of shady individuals in longcoats and wide-brimmed hats. I think they might have been pirates.
Antigrav boards for rent! You break it, you pay.
I sometimes misread 'wine tasting' as 'time wasting'. The worst part is that nobody's noticed so far.
Looking for some company for tonight? No questions asked, no strings attached. Just contact me if you need anything.
Human resources worker
We always put our employees first. But sometimes they do things that are bad for their careers. Like, accusing a high-ranking manager of harassment.
I once had to find a delicate way to explain to a worker that he smelled bad. Like, so bad that no one could bear to be in a small meeting room with him.
For most jobs, it's essential to know how to get along with others and be a team player. But I bet a freelance pilot like you never needs to worry about that.
Many people overestimate their own capabilities. Those people usually don't last long in their jobs.
Some people underestimate their own capabilities. Those people usually get bored and unproductive over time due to their work not being enough of a challenge.
Presenteeism, where people are present but too unwell to do productive work, is a bigger problem these days than absenteeism.
I should be dealing with employees that just hang around and don't do any useful work, but being here in the spaceport and talking to people like you is much more fun.
Loan officer
Mortgage broker
You probably think the interest rates we charge are exorbitant, but with all the ships getting blown up by pirates these days, we barely break even.
We charge however much interest the market will support. The only captains who can't manage to pay their debts are the ones with no business sense whatsoever.
Sadly, for the last several centuries there have been laws against inflicting bodily harm on people to convince them to pay off their debts.
I still think we should be able to charge double the interest on loans to buy a Sparrow, but the regulators won't let us.
Do you know how hard it is to force somebody that joined the pirates to pay off their loans?
Some people say that we're loan sharks, but I don't understand why. I think that killer whales are way cooler than sharks.
Hyperspace relay engineer
"All of human space is linked into a single communications network by relay beacons. It's something that most people just take for granted."
"Hyperspace links don't just allow faster-than-light travel. They also allow near-instantaneous communication, if you have the right sort of relay on both ends."
"The hyperspace communications network is a marvel of public infrastructure, but most people just take it for granted."
"Hyperspace relays are so integral to society that even pirates don't dare to touch them. They'd easily become the number one enemy of the Republic if they did."
"I'm surprised at how many people on Earth are still using the old IPv4 protocol. None of the off-Earth websites are reachable for them."
"Have you ever set up a TCP/IP connection from Bourne to a server on Farpoint? I have. It's a little slow, but it works!"
"Do you know the DRQ of the HSBE for the hyperlanes around here? You don't understand? Sorry, a hyperlane can be thought of as a corridor through space..." The engineer gives a long-winded and confusing explanation of hyperlanes.
"It might take hours to get a message a few systems away going through the hyperspace relays, but it sure beats taking multiple days to send a ship or multiple centuries to send a message at light speed."
Hyperspace researcher
Hyperspace scientist
Hyperspace specialist
It's hard to believe that modern-day society relies on what is effectively magical space highways.
Even centuries later, we still know barely more than Charles Plot, father of the hyperdrive, did about how the hyperspace lanes were formed. All we've learned since then is apparently some other race the Quarg know is involved with them.
The Quarg don't appear to even bother with hyperspace lanes. Their drives apparently teleport their ships from one system to another. If that's true, then they would be able to visit the systems inaccessible to our hyperdrives.
Even if they aren't directly linked by hyperspace lanes, your ship can still detect systems near you. Not that it matters, though, since we still can't jump to those systems.
The field of hyperspace lane destruction is filled with misunderstanding and pseudoscience. If there was a method to remove hyperspace lanes, though, whoever discovered it would effectively control human space.
Many a hyperspace-based weapon has been tested, but due to the dynamics of entering hyperspace while not aligned with a hyperspace lane, all of them have failed. Thankfully.
Our field is not rocket science. We deal with actually hard problems.
Geological engineer
With the right equipment, you can see inside a planet as easily as if it were... um... a tomato held up in front of an arc lamp. Sorry, I'm awful at similes.
I have equipment that would let me trigger an earthquake just by pressing a button. That's why they never allow me into the office when I'm drunk.
For centuries people have been saying that asteroid mining is going to put terrestrial resource extraction companies out of business, but it still hasn't happened.
A few times, I've traveled so deep underground that the rock felt warm to the touch. But I imagine that's nowhere near as exciting as traveling through space.
I can't believe how annoying it must've been in the distant past to be a geological engineer, with you on one side, the thing you're trying to study on the other, and 15 kilometers of solid rock in between. Thankfully, technology and scanners have marched on since then, and those depressing days are long gone.
Agricultural scientist
I hope you checked your shoes for invasive species before setting foot on my planet. The last thing we want is for our crops to get infected with the Arcturan Blight.
Even though there are some alien ungulates that put on weight much quicker than Earth animals, or that have much leaner meat, most people still prefer to eat cows.
I've heard that the corporate farms on some Paradise Worlds don't even need irrigation systems. They can just call up the terraforming office and order a rainstorm whenever they need one.
People have been farming for thousands of years, but finding the best way to maximize yields without wearing out the land is still a hard problem to solve.
Don't ever forget that you have us to thank for humanity's ability to support our growing population.
Pearl in the Phurad system
Valhalla in the Epsilon Leonis system
Bourne in the Gamma Corvi system
Trinket in the Sargas system
Shangri-La in the Polaris system
Athlete
I'm planning to compete in a game on ${athlete competition location}!
I tried to compete in the Burthen Triathalon once, but the gravity was too much for me. Now I'm training to try again next year!
Have you ever done the long jump on Longjump? Even an untrained individual can jump ten meters in that environment!
I sure am glad we'll never have to compete against any Alphas. We would all lose!
Does your ship have a weight room?
I'm hoping to get a sponsorship, but nobody here wants to partner with me. Could you recommend a planet where I might find better results?
I don't expect everyone to be as fit as I am, but do remember to get up and exercise a little every once in a while!
I once went to a sports event on Dancer in the the Rastaban system, but never again! All activities were indoors because of the horrible weather the planet has.
Dentist
Remember to pack a toothcleanser for your journey!
My new anti-cavity campaign is called 'Plaque Doesn't Deserve a Plaque.' Do you like it?
If the galaxy has many alien species, I hope they all have teeth.
The advent of almost perfect artificial teeth may tempt you to stop caring if your natural teeth start to rot. Trust me that taking care of your teeth saves a lot of pain from both your mouth and your wallet.
I'm that one dentist that doesn't recommend anything.
I used to work as a back-alley doctor before getting this job.
9 out of 10 dentists think the 10th dentist is an idiot.
Epidemiologist
People always worry about extra-terrestrial viruses and bacteria, but the deadliest diseases are very often caused by microbes we brought with us to the stars from good old Mother Earth.
Would you be willing to donate a saliva sample? Frequent interstellar travelers are the primary vector for pandemics, so we're supposed to monitor any starship captains that come through here.
It's been so many centuries since the Rigellian Plague that most spaceports don't even have quarantine facilities anymore. When the next big one comes, we'll be woefully unprepared.
Don't listen to those conspiracy theories that say you can catch awful viruses from the Quarg. Their physiology is so alien that we're immune to all their diseases.
Economist
We're actually required by local law to predict that the economy will continue to do well, because the government thinks that any dire predictions will be a self-fulfilling prophecy.
It's crazy that we live in an age where technology lets us predict solar storms a month in advance, but we still can't predict what the stock market will do a week from today.
The hardest part of being an economist isn't the difficulty of seeing a disaster coming; it's the difficulty of convincing those in power to do something about it.
An economy is almost like a living organism, and if you're able to grasp its intricacy and scope, it's actually a very beautiful thing.
Mechanic
Don't worry, I keep a strict no-smoking policy when working near the fuel system.
You should really have your coolant system flushed every 50,000 light-years.
They just don't build 'em like they used to.
I've been restoring an old Flivver I bought from a scrapyard as a hobby project. She's going to be a beauty once I get her flying again!
Make sure your ship is running cool. An overheated ship will give you nothing but trouble.
I did my apprenticeship with the Navy, but after I finished my tour, I just wanted to open up my own repair shop.
I spent three years on a bulk freighter as the ship's mechanic. The pay was decent, but I like being my own boss.
Piracy is a problem, but I'd be lying if I said it didn't keep the ship repair business steady.
Pass me the 10 mm socket wrench?
If it ain't broken, then don't come to me.
Used Spaceship Salesman
Used Spaceship Saleswoman
Used Spaceship Salesperson
Used Spaceship Seller
Used Spaceship Dealer
When one hatch closes, another one opens. Other than that, it's a pretty good spaceship.
First I tell my customers how very durable my ships are. And after they buy, I tell them about all the fragile parts to convince them to also buy an extended warranty.
Like new, low mileage, previously owned by an elderly lady.
Hey, you there! I have the perfect ship for you.
One of my ships has a fuel leak? No way, it's... sweat from all the hard work it does.
Nuclear technician
Last year all the hair on the left hand side of my face turned white and fell out. The company swears it was just a weird illness and had nothing to do with my work.
My kids keep asking me to bring a bar of plutonium home for them to play with. Some stupid video convinced them that it would give them super powers.
Nuclear reactors are remarkably safe these days. I don't know why the government won't let us build them in residential neighborhoods.
In all of human space, there hasn't been a single nuclear meltdown in fourteen years. And that was just a tiny one, hardly even worth mentioning.
My company's motto is, 'We bring the power of the stars down to earth, and send earthlings to the stars.' I think we should change it to something catchier.
Ever used a fusion reactor in your ship? Feel free to thank one of us.
The most terrifying word in my profession is 'Oops.'
Substance abuse counselor
I know some folks try to talk captains like you into carrying drugs on the side. I wish all of you could see the real human cost of that industry.
Zooming around in your fancy spaceship, I bet you don't realize the sort of desperation that some of the folks down here below you are carrying around.
The government pays my salary. They say it's worth it, because every credit spent on me prevents ten credits of lost productivity.
Honestly, drugs are a problem throughout human space, but the richer folks have the resources to keep their addictions well-managed and well-hidden.
If someone ever offers you a drug running job, I beg you to deny it and direct them toward one of us. That person will thank you later.
I'm doing a human interest story about a llama that stowed away in a ship's cargo hold. Llamas are so cute, people will watch anything that involves them.
My job is to bring sunlight into dark places and expose things that people are trying to keep hidden... and to avoid being killed in the process.
A free and independent press is a critical component of any healthy democracy. But sensationalism is a whole lot more lucrative.
I've been interviewing elderly starship captains. You wouldn't believe the tall tales that some of them tell!
Read my new article! 'Ten Things the Quarg Are Hiding from Us - Number Seven Will Surprise You!'
People love sorting things and lists that sort things. Do you want to listen to my list of the top ten starships?
Read this! 'The Real UGLIEST Starship that Lionheart Don't Want You to Know About!'
Look at my new article! 'The Protector - Actually a SCAM?'
Look at this! 'Five Reasons Why Captains Should Check Spaceports More Often - Number Two Will Make You Cry!'
Check this out! 'Top 20 Things Starship Pilots Don't Want You to Know!' Wait, never mind.
'11 signs that you are dealing with a corporate executive.' Read my blog to protect yourself from those psychopaths!
PR consultant
Crisis Consultant
If you ever get accused of smuggling drugs, then the first person to call is not your lawyer, but me.
It doesn't matter if an accusation is true or false. What does matter is if an accusation is made public or not.
One of my clients crashed her shuttle into the Parliament building. Keeping that out of the news was horribly expensive, but it was still cheaper than the reputation hit if it were broadcast.
Museum curator
You would not believe the sorts of things that the inhabitants of ancient Earth did for entertainment back before interstellar travel was a reality.
I operate an arboretum with trees and shrubs from more than fifty worlds. Fortunately, none of them are particularly invasive species.
The most popular exhibit in our entire Children's Museum is the interactive starship simulator. You're living a life that those kids can only dream of.
Did you know that humans used to rely on explosive fuel mixtures to propel them into orbit? Imagine how mad you'd have to be to do that!
We recently put a restored 20th-century shipping container on display. You can hardly tell the difference from the ones in use today! Isn't historical inertia fascinating?
Every so often, we get contacted by someone shady wishing to donate something to our museum.
Actor
We're doing a production of the Scottish Play where the three witches are made up to look like Quarg. I know it sounds weird, but it works in our context.
I just finished a project doing voice acting for an animated children's book. It's kind of a relief to be done with it, honestly. Certain lines are still stuck in my brain.
Right now I'm mostly just doing commercials, but I'm working on a concept for a zero-gravity musical that will be truly epic.
I have a rich client on Hestia who pays me a thousand credits a day just for recording videos where I bestow extravagant compliments on him.
I recommend that you don't look at any media from the 28th century. They're so laden with pop-culture references that it's painful to watch.
Hey, you are so beautiful, do you want to marry me? Haha, just kidding, I'm rehearsing for my new role.
Don't be fooled by my jovial appearance onstage. I take my work very seriously.
Musician
Excuse me! I seem to have lost my violin. Have you seen it?
You think human critics are hard to impress? Try performing for the Quarg!
I'm writing a new song called '${media name}.' Nobody seems to like it. What do you think?
I put on a concert here a while back, but some wacky band scheduled their own on the same day and everybody went there instead. I think the group was called 'Maybe an Uproar Will Happen' or something like that.
The spaceport is a great place to go busking. People seem to give money more enthusiastically when they are excited about going to a new planet.
The music played by all these young new performers is so shallow and artless. Music requires thoughtful consideration to every detail and nuance, yet so many 'musicians' think they can carelessly throw whatever together and call it 'music.'
Some musicians think they are so sophisticated just because they play antique tunes. I prefer to innovate beyond what already exists, even if the result is different. Doesn't the art of music demand such creativity?
Stories about extra-terrestrials are very unpopular now that most of humanity is living off-Earth.
Stories about alien lifeforms became a lot more popular after humanity actually met alien lifeforms.
It takes surprisingly little space to transport a band on a tour. Eight free bunks and only a little cargo space, so long as they are good at packing.
Technical writer
Do you have a few minutes to listen to my thoughts on the importance of the serial comma?
People who over-use the passive voice should be lined up and shot. It doesn't make your writing more formal, it just makes it harder to read.
Documents are written once, and read many times. So every minute I spend polishing someone's writing will pay off many times over in the long run.
Communication skills are essential no matter what your job is. If you can't write well, people will think you're an idiot. Or at least, people like me will think that.
Be careful with the word 'awesome' on other planets. Here it means something great, but somehow the meaning changed to something awful on some other planets.
Can you imagine that in the time before the Republic there were dozens of different programming languages? I wonder how they ever got any programming jobs done.
Dietitian
I actually have several recipes that can make processed algae delicious. Or at least, visually appealing. Quite edible. I mean, it's not that hard to mask the taste.
One of my rich clients wants me to figure out how she can subsist on eating nothing but flowers. She thinks eating the leaves and roots of plants is cruel.
A few years ago I worked for the Syndicate, designing prepackaged liquid meals for factory workers. They were incredibly nutritious, but they tasted disgusting.
There are probably thousands of edible native plants on every world human beings have colonized, but people still prefer the plants we brought with us from ancient Earth.
Chef
For a recent corporate gala, I constructed a fire pit large enough to roast an entire Antarean thunder-lizard. The fat was perfectly rendered. It was amazing.
I'm employed as the chef on a luxury cruise ship. A Star Queen. The captain tells me that Star Queens are considered the safest way to travel in outer space.
A rich client of mine shot a spiny-tailed gorgebeast on a safari expedition and asked me to cook it for him. The flavor profile was quite... unique.
I was a dish-washer when I started, and now I'm a sous-chef. And people say there's no upward mobility in the galaxy these days!
Eating fancy dishes is great, but sometimes there's nothing you want more than a good old sandwich.
Last week my dish was completely ruined; somebody had calibrated my kitchen scale with the gravity settings of another planet.
There is only one thing worse than finding a worm in an apple you're eating: finding half a worm in that apple.
We can bake the most delicious fluffy cakes in space, but our trade union said we shouldn't call them spacecakes.
Hey, don't just hang around over there! Help me load this stuff; these 50 catering containers aren't going to move themselves.
Be careful what you transport; another chef once tried to poison my supplies during transport. Both that chef and the transporting captain are in jail now.
A customer recently ordered a cheeseburger without the meat. Funny way to order a cheese sandwich.
If you ever start a restaurant near a spaceport, then don't call it 'The Space Bar'. You might think you're funny, but so did hundreds of other new restaurant owners before you.
Insurance agent
No, we don't sell insurance policies on private starships in this day and age. We also don't insure buildings in flood plains and houses inhabited by convicted serial arsonists.
Among the Paradise Worlds, there's currently a fad of taking out insurance policies on pets, to pay for therapy if the animal dies unexpectedly.
Insurance is all about mitigating risks. But you're flying around the vacuum of space in a tin can, so you probably don't know much about that.
I just got done handling an insurance fraud case where the owner claimed her entire home had been eaten by Sagittarian sand-fleas.
It's a real shame that not everyone is able to afford insurance. More people insured means more money for us.
I used to be a gambler. Still am in a way, but I'm acceptable to society now.
A spaceship controller... is that someone that controls a spaceship, or a spaceship that controls something? The premiums and amounts of paperwork for those are quite different.
Excavation specialist
Explosives worker
Those newfangled mining lasers are pretty cool, but there's nothing like good old-fashioned dynamite for shifting a lot of rock in a hurry.
Sure, you may have been to outer space, but I bet you've never been ten kilometers underground.
For hundreds of years we've been worried that asteroid harvesting will put terrestrial miners out of business, but it still hasn't happened.
Once I've worked here for another decade, I plan to move to some Paradise World and earn a living excavating bunkers for paranoid rich folks to hide in.
Once we had to stop work on a mine for a month because the archaeologists thought we found evidence of a million-year-old civilization. It turned out the site was just radioactive. Dodged that one!
Last month, we had some loony pilot offer to use their missile launchers to help us mine!
Last month, we had some loony pilot request a reactor upgrade after delivering some explosives to us!
I'm a former pirate. Now I've found more productive ways to blow stuff up.
Chauffeur
I fly the missus to her appointments in a private shuttlecraft, because she hates being stuck in traffic.
The family I work for is so rich that they pay me to ride in the back of their self-driving car just so I can open the doors for them when they arrive wherever they're going.
My company gives private gyrocopter rides to rich tourists. I built the gyrocopter myself, but it's a very safe vehicle.
You wouldn't believe the sorts of things that go on in the back of my car after certain extravagant social galas.
You'll never believe what happened on my first day on the job. Someone tried to rob a building while I was in the parking lot. I had to ram their van to keep them from getting away!
They make me fly around the planet for ridiculous things, but you don't hear me complain with the salary they pay me.
The vegetables are supposedly more fresh when I personally pick them up at the spaceport than when they get delivered through the 1-hour delivery service.
I used to have a job flying a band around, but they wanted to spend some time in the Dirt Belt, and I was hoping for work closer to the Paradise Worlds.
Pensioner
Retiring is the best thing I ever did. They should make it mandatory!
All of my children have gone to the most prestigious academy on Hestia. They're so brilliant, it was the only place that would do.
It makes me feel so safe to know that there are half a dozen Navy warships in orbit. The barbarians north of here wouldn't dare attack us!
This is such a great place to retire. They tax income much more heavily than investments and business profits, so if you make most of your money elsewhere, you can avoid paying practically any taxes at all!
I don't stand for it when I hear youngsters complain about the fact that I have a generous pension. I worked for 40 years to earn this retirement!
I feel sorry for the young workers who are supporting me right now. They have to pay more in taxes and pension contributions than I ever did, and they probably won't get to retire until they're 70, at least.
We're very fortunate to have been able to retire here. Don't ever take your blessings for granted, captain.
It's amazing how much technology has progressed in my lifetime!
You wouldn't believe the kinds of ruffians they let in here. My neighbor got their fortune by winning the lottery, for goodness sake!
Financial analyst
You must be a very brave captain, if you have traveled to some of the... less civilized parts of human space.
I can't believe how expensive college tuition is these days. My kid's first semester just set me back 172,000 credits!
My daughter's Flivver is a few years old already... maybe it's time for an upgrade? I hear the new ones are much safer.
Have you heard about the Navy admiral who married a commoner? I just can't believe things like that still happen.
I'm about to lose my vacation home on Martini! Next time I'm insisting on a pre-nuptial agreement.
My son won a silver trophy in his last game. He's going to be a great athlete some day.
The galactic economy's in trouble, mark my words. Indicators haven't been this negative in more than 50 years, but nobody wants to hear it.
God, these taxes are killing me. I make a good income, but it feels like half of it goes to the Republic, and I've got bills to pay, too.
I manage 8-figure portfolios, but what gets me up in the morning is the sight of a beautiful sunrise. I know it's all geo-engineered, but is a painting any less sublime just because it was made by human hands?
Nearly lost my shirt in the commodities market last week. If my boss ever found out, it'd be curtains for me!
Syndicate manager
Manager
We've had to ask everyone to work sixty-hour weeks just to meet this month's quotas. The workers complain to me, but I tell them I'm in the same boat as they are.
The Syndicate makes us take the same stupid workspace harassment training every single year. How would you like it if some bohemian outside consultant was telling you what you can and can't do in your social life?
In general, the women in my factory are much more conscientious workers than most of the men. Too bad so few of them have the sort of assertiveness and commanding presence you need in a manager.
I had to resign my union membership when I was promoted to a manager, but I still try to do what's best for the folks who report to me.
Outside of Syndicate space, kids aren't allowed to work until they turn eighteen. No wonder their economies are so much less productive than ours.
You look like the kind of captain who could benefit from a Syndicate Proton Gun. Would you care to schedule a test-firing?
Have you considered a Syndicate Freighter for your next ship? Captains like you swear by them!
Nobody ever got fired for buying Syndicate.
I would love to tell you about my job, but just telling you I work for the Syndicate probably already violates the non-disclosure agreement I signed.
Those union boys are completely unreasonable; if we give them a finger then they try to eat up the whole arm up to the elbow.
I've some disagreements with a manager above me. Can you pick up a mediator called Harry the Butcher from Deadman's Cove to help us resolve the problem peacefully?
I'm the manager. The folks here need to learn that it is my way or the highway.
Those union guys wanted to rally on a planet nearby, but unionizing is forbidden on that planet. We could stop them easily by having the spaceport there closed for harboring known criminals!
My employees are angry when they need to do unpaid overtime in exceptional situations. They should have realized that working for me is exceptional every day.
Patience is a virtue, but why is 'just hurry up' not also a virtue? Hurrying up works much better in the factory.
If everything is under control, then we're not going fast enough. Except of course in your business, where people typically die due to explosions or the vacuum of space when things get out of control.
I allow people to go home when they are no longer productive, even if it is 3 PM. Who are we kidding if we just steer on being present instead of steering on being productive?
We used to give our top performers shuttles, but they flew away faster than we could hire. Now we give them apartments and many are settling here and starting families.
I'm really fed up with employees that have a 'can do' attitude. Just do your job, without the attitude.
I'm actively recruiting people with a 9-to-5 mentality, because I know how important it is to have a good work/life balance.
We used to advertise our food products with 100% organic ingredients, but nobody believed us. Now we are advertising with 60% organic ingredients and sales are sky high.
We used to advertise that we're the best in the market, but that didn't work. Now we advertise with the slogan 'Just what's needed to get the job done,' and that really caught on.
We hired a marketing agency and they came up with the sloppy slogan 'Just what's needed to get the job done.' Can you believe we spent huge amounts of money on that garbage?
An employee once asked me how I was able to buy such a luxurious Flivver. I said that if she keeps working hard, soon I'll be able to buy another one.
A colleague of mine is in deep trouble: he was tired of having to use his badge every time to enter the office, so he just disabled all the security. It's going to take him years to repay all the equipment that was stolen.
Corporate consultant
Work/Life balance coach
Work efficiency coach
A startup company once hired me, and I immediately advised them to stop; hiring an expensive consultant like me is a horrible decision for a cash strapped startup.
Working as the head of a company requires sound decision making abilities. Hiring an expensive consultant like me usually suggests a lack thereof, but I'm not complaining since I get paid well.
Researcher
It's so exciting being on the cutting edge of human knowledge, but I wish it were easier to secure funding. A lot of my equipment is more than 40 years old.
This neutronium alloy I'm working on will be what's armoring your next starship - no doubt about it.
Yesterday I almost lost all my research notes when my computer crashed. I can't believe we still have to worry about things like this! What are the software guys doing all day?
We've got student interns in the lab this month. A few of them are very bright!
Excuse me, captain, I have to resume work on a paper I'm co-authoring. Would you like an advance copy?
My research concerns force fields. No, not those kinds of force fields.
I'm going to be a teacher some day!
I'm going to be a doctor some day!
I'm going to be a financial manager some day!
I'm going to be an engineer some day!
I'm going to be a scientist some day!
Sorry, no time to talk; I'm busy studying.
People keep telling me to go into STEM, but it's just so hard. Besides, I really like PR. I think I'll be fine.
Tuition is so high these days that I've had to take three side jobs just to get through the semester. It's hard to focus on my studies, but I'll manage somehow.
After graduation, I think I'd like to work in industry somewhere, but my advisor is encouraging me to go on and get my master's degree. What do you think?
Sorry, no time to chat. My master's thesis is already late and I'm hiding from my advisor.
This is the life! I'm only in class like 3, so my days are totally open! I know it'll end in a few years, but I'm going to enjoy it while I can. After you graduate, it's just work work work until you're dead.
Mystic
Religious scholar
Preacher
May God be with you!
The path to enlightenment is fraught with sacrifice.
We spend all our lives striving, but everything we need is always right in front of us.
When we spend our lives chasing desire, we find that it turns to ashes in our mouths, and that which we seek most becomes a prison. What do you seek?
I thought I needed to come to this place to seek spiritual fulfillment, but I have since learned that it was inside myself all along.
In a few weeks, I'm leaving here to join the Navy. The pirate attacks are getting worse and worse, and what good are we if we cannot defend our own holy sites? The eternal may listen to words and prayers, but pirates respect only guns and warships.
It's been many years since I came to this world seeking out cosmic truth, and I sense that my journey may soon be at an end.
Can you spare a few credits for the poor, captain? In this universe of abundance, so many still suffer.
Praise Jesus! This day is a blessing.
Praise Allah! This day is a blessing.
Praise God! This day is a blessing.
Sightseer
This place is so romantic. I wish I could stay forever.
I may have paid a small fortune to get here, but it was worth it! Don't you just love this place?
I paid so much money to get here, and look at the place - it's a dump. I'll try to make the best of it, I suppose.
Next year I hope I can afford to book passage on a ship with nicer accommodations. I had to listen to the reactor's noisy humming for the whole five-day trip here!
I come here every year.
Can you believe that our ship was attacked by pirates on the way here? It's lucky a Navy patrol showed up and chased them off before our shields dropped. It was all so exciting! I'm taking the same route again next year.
I can't wait to go skiing here! Haha, just kidding.
It's too bad I have to leave tomorrow. I only get two weeks of vacation a year, and it's hard to leave after spending half that time in transit here and back.
I'm not riding on any ship that doesn't have the decency to have luxurious accommodations!
It's criminal how cheap the fares are to get here. For around a few thousand credits, you get to see stunning sights and shocking spectacles well worth double of what you paid.
I was really hoping for more aliens in space. What's the point if there's no steamy interspecies romance!?
Can you tell me again which planet this is? No, I'm not lost, I just don't know where I am.
We did a ride on an ancient spacecraft the other day. It was called something like Soyuz or Shuttle Dragon. I don't remember the name exactly, but it was horrible; my back still hurts from the bumpy ride.
I almost missed my transport last week; someone was wrong on the hypernet and I was in a long, heated discussion to correct it.
Hey! Where's platform 5? I need to board there in a few minutes!
Have you seen my luggage? I'm sure I put it here some minutes ago.
We visited an exhibition about ancient military weapons; stuff like stealth fighters, artillery and tanks. It all became obsolete so fast when we got cheap spaceflight.
I can travel millions of kilometers to another planet, cheaply and within a day; but going to the other side of this planet, just a few thousand kilometers, costs me a fortune and a week of travel time.
Can I speak to the manager? There was a scratch on my cabin-door and it really irritated me. I think my whole vacation is ruined now.
Can I speak to the manager? The landing on this planet was a bit rough and I'm seriously considering filing a complaint.
Warn me if you see my partner or my secret lover. They learned about each other and now they're both trying to kill me.
Protester
Stay with global companies! Don't depend on galactic companies from other worlds!
Humans were not built for traveling in space. Bad things happen when traveling at 25,000 kilometers per second!
If we were meant to be in space, then we would have been born with built-in oxygen bottles!
Give up your sinful life as spaceship captain and settle on this beautiful planet.
Diplomat
Elite negotiator
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
Good counsel does no harm.
Never argue with an idiot. People watching may have trouble telling who's who.
Taxes are what we use to buy civilization.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
No raindrop likes to see itself as responsible for the flood.
Mercenary
I've tracked fugitives halfway across the galaxy, and they have me on... guard duty. These guys must really be desperate given the kind of money they waved in my face.
Security may be expensive, but think of it this way: it's better to be poor than dead.
Nothing beats the thrill of boarding a crippled starship, laser rifle in your hands.
Have you ever been to a pirate world? The conditions there are nearly inhuman!
It's criminal how much the Navy and Syndicate prefer to destroy pirates rather than disable them. How are people like us supposed to make money if we can't loot?
If you're trying to nab a pirate ship, try it in the South. The militia often leave the pirates disabled rather than killing them.
Take it from me: if you want to disable ships, only use lasers. Projectile-based weapons always overkill your target.
As much as I'd like to dual-wield laser rifles, I'd probably just miss every shot.
Republic Soldier
I bet you think that starship of yours is hot stuff, huh? Try tooling around in a cruiser with Atomic Engines sometime. You can run circles around interceptors.
As soon as I leave the service, I'm buying my own ship like yours. It'll be nice to give the orders for a change!
Nice ship, captain. We trashed one just like it the other day during a pirate raid. Plating behind the engine room was real weak once the shields dropped, and a volley of sidewinders crippled her. You might want to look into that on yours.
I used to be in the Syndicate Armed Forces before resigning my commission and joining the Navy. Here we actually train and fight instead of filling out paperwork all day.
I can't wait until the day I get out. These rations are going to make me lose my mind. What I wouldn't give for a home-cooked meal...
Let me give you a piece of advice: Particle Cannons are some of the best weapons out there. Pirates don't stand a chance.
I hope I don't get posted to fighter duty next week. Those things are deathtraps. By the time you get close enough to fire your lasers, you've already lost half your shields!
Nobody thinks about the Alphas anymore, but don't forget that they just disappeared. They could return at any time. If that happens, I'm going to kill every last one of 'em.
While it seems pointless to have the Bactrian locked behind a license, don't forget that it's one of the oldest designs in human space. It was the Navy Carrier of its time - and it's still comparable to one.
We recently went to full alert, because somebody screamed "It's scrambled!" Turns out some rookie in the galley was enthusiastic about making scrambled eggs.
Syndicate Soldier
What a terrible posting. I thought I'd filed my transfer paperwork right, but it turned out my commander's seal had to be a certified original and not a copy, so now I'm stuck here for another two years.
I did a stint in the Republic military a few years ago, but the Syndicate pays so much more. Now I can actually save some money for my daughter's college tuition.
You're living the dream, captain! Someday I'm going to retire from the Syndicate military and buy my own ship.
After 20 years, you're eligible for a lifetime pension. I've only got 8 years left, and then I'm home free!
It's a scandal how many pirates are out here. We do our best, but upper management ties our hands with ridiculous rules of engagement.
Everybody knows where the pirate planets are, so why don't we ever go on a mission to wipe 'em out? I don't understand it.
My team was about to obliterate the flagship of a pirate fleet, but just before we could, we received orders to cease fire and fall back. One more second and those pirates would have been rigatoni.
If you ask me, I think that the Syndicate is far too soft on the pirates - almost as if they don't want to harm them more than they need to. Don't tell my employers that I said that, though.
Renegade
Looter
Buccaneer
Freebooter
Plunderer
Next time we meet up, maybe I'll be plundering your ship.
What are you looking at, punk?
Hobbes and Darwin got it right: it's a war of all against all, and only the strongest deserve to survive. Without that pistol at your side, I'd slit your throat right now and take everything you own.
Slaves for sale! Slaves for sale! Here is an exotic beauty with eyes full of fire that you can buy!
Wanna buy some death sticks?
Sometimes I wonder if what I'm doing is wrong.
Every morning I look in the mirror... and I like what I see.
Why did I become a pirate? It's the only way to truly be free. I was born a slave, and look at me now! I command a fleet of warships. I pay no taxes. I obey no laws. What a life!
Just watch yourself, and maybe we'll let you live.
At half your age, I was richer than you'll ever be. This is the life, baby.
Don't look at me like that. You wouldn't survive five minutes of my life.
Just knocked over a fat merchant ship. Can't wait to blow all this cash on slaves and drugs!
I used to be a soft-bellied merchant captain before my life took a turn. Gotta get tough or get dead in this galaxy.
Just a word of warning: don't fall asleep in the hotels here.
Betcha I can name a combat use for every ship in the sky. Flivver? Might as well be a Sparrow. Freighter? Umm... it works as a great plundering vessel. Surveillance drone? Don't make me shoot you.
Bah. How can you not gag at the suffocating rules that the Republic forces onto you? I mean, banning chickens with dynamite strapped to them? Ridiculous!
Yo, yo, yo, what's up, suckers! I'm high on ${contraband}! Wanna freebie? No? Coward!
You look like a good captain. I'd bet you'd be a better slave!
Hmph. You 'freelancers' have it easy, relying on the Navy as a crutch. If you wanna be your own captain, you've gotta strike out on your own!
Ever heard of the game Mafia? My life's a real-life version of that, 'cept instead of a town, there's merchants, and instead of a mafia, there's us, and the town has no way to survive!
Look at me like that one more time, and I'll give you plastic surgery free of charge.
Crime pays, and the hours are good!
I'll retire as a security adviser in the Paradise Worlds. You know the saying: An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper.
Hey, that's a very nice ship you have there. Would be a shame if something happened to it. Do you want to make a donation to the System Safety Fund?
Your credits or your life! Oh, you don't have either? Never mind then.
Don't count on the Navy to save you if me or any of my friends attack you. Those Navy goons only hang around near the rich planets.
Did I attack you? Well, I've attacked many people, could you be a bit more specific?
The size of my crimes no longer matter; one may as well hang for a sheep as for a lamb.
Hey! We have this new Piracy As A Service offering. Want someone ambushed without incriminating yourself? Just tell me who, where, and how much it's worth to you.
I don't get it; if I donate a kidney, then I'm some sort of hero. But if I donate 7 kidneys, then suddenly I'm some sort of monster.
I wasn't close to my parents when they died. Which was quite fortunate, since they died in an exploding ship.
I hate double standards; burn a body in a crematorium and you're a professional, burn a body in a spaceship and you're a criminal.
I missed my lover during the raids today. But only by a few inches; next time I'll aim better.
I once prayed to God for a new ship, but quickly found out He doesn't roll that way. So then I hijacked one and prayed for his forgiveness.
Living on the edge.
You can't win the game if you're afraid to lose it.
Good things come to those who wait, and then I rob those from them very quickly.
Starship captain
Spacecraft captain
Spaceship captain
Freelance captain
Starship pilot
Spacecraft pilot
Spaceship pilot
Freelance pilot
Yikes! I just wanted to see what outfits were here! I'm out of here as soon as I get back to my ship!
What are you lookin' at? Don't judge me!
Nice to see a friendly face in these parts. I needed to land to shake those buggers off my tail. Pirates won't shoot at you if you're going for a landing.
Thank god, there's someone other than those freaky pirates around here. At least, assuming that you're not a pirate. Which you aren't, of course. Right?
Why am I here? I really needed the fuel and decided that bribing off pirates until another ship entered the system wasn't smart long-term.
There's some real creeps around here. All I wanted to do was sell some cargo at this port, but it definitely wasn't worth the risk.
Whatever you do, don't try the ${contraband}. That stuff's nasty.
Why am I here? I could ask the same of you!
I have to admit, the thought of being a pirate is tempting.
You're not going to kill me, are you?
I flew around half the galaxy to pick up a wedding banquet, but it wasn't here and they stole my cargo instead! The cake was a lie!
The optimist has the glass half full, the pessimist has the glass half empty, but here you are already lucky if the glass doesn't get shot, stolen, or broken before you take your first sip.
Fancy folks in the big cities and the Paradise Planets think they've got life all figured out, but if you dig below the surface, you'll find that they're slaves to their lifestyles, and we're the ones who are free.
I used to be a pirate, roamin' the skies, lootin' and plunderin'. Pockets got up to a few million at one point. Thought I had it all. One day, I realized none of it was making me happy. I bought this farm and sold the rest. Best thing I ever did.
Shocked to see some normal farmers wandering 'round here? Just because we live on a lawless world doesn't mean it's kill or be killed.
My son was enslaved by a gang of pirates. Not much one can do around here to prevent that.
My daughter was held hostage by a gang of pirates until I coughed up some money for them. It's become such a common occurrence that I have to keep a stockpile of credits just in case.
My father was shot by a gang of pirates. Do you want to know why he was killed? It was because he had a large nose.
My mother was once kidnapped by a gang of pirates. She escaped, but, well, now I'm here.
It'd be nice if the pirates could plunder some pesticides for us. It's little more than a pipe dream, though.
When one chooses the lawless lifestyle, the opportunities to grab a good bite lower drastically. That's what we're here for.
The pirates could easily just loot us for our last credit. Of course, if they did that, they'd lose one of their sources of food. And some of us aren't completely defenseless...
The farmers in the Dirt Belt have it easy. They get the luxuries of fertilizer and pesticide.
Pirates may look fierce, but the moment you start pushing against most of them, they fold like paper.
I came here due to all of those oppressive rules and regulations that the Republic force down your throat. Now I'm dealing with all the oppressive demands and threats that pirates force down my throat. It's a start.
Beneath the exterior of many pirates, there's a person who desperately wishes that they'd never taken that path and could return to living normally. I'm talking from personal experience.
I should never have taken this assignment. Yesterday I interviewed a young pirate and he tried to rob me!
It really isn't so bad here, but I have to make it sound worse than it is to keep my ratings high.
The political hierarchy out here is way more chaotic than any other planet I've visited. In the past year, I've had to report on five coups d'etat!
Understanding pirates is the key to defeating them. Yesterday I learned that the local warlord goes sock-shoe-sock-shoe and not sock-sock-shoe-shoe.
I titled my latest article 'New Bombshell Interview Reveals All!' In fact, there were many bombs dropped and many shells fired during my conversation. It was really quite frightening.
Look at this! 'Top Ten Pirates Hector Barbarossa is Too Afraid to Cross!'
Read this! 'Twenty Pirates with the Highest IQs - You'll Never Guess Who's Number One!'
Check this out! 'Telltale Signs Your Spouse is Secretly a Pirate - Number Five Says it All!'
Read my column on how to identify pirates in disguise! Or just look around this planet, that also works.
Spaceport Video Screen
You see a video of stuntmen making a jump from the edge of space. The "do not try this at home", "illegal on many planets", and "high risk/deadly" warnings at the end of the video suggest that this might become quite a popular sport.
A video of fast spaceships racing around a three dimensional course in space is shown on the screen, interwoven with clips of very luxurious ships where people appear to be watching the race.
An action-packed advertisement about joining the Navy is playing on the screen. It shows impressive video-fragments of carriers, gunships, dropships and heroic marines.
Some video is showing Syndicate equipment. The video ends with the slogan, 'Just what's needed to get the job done.'
restaurant
cafe
Public Announcement System
Attention: baggage should not be left unattended. Any unattended baggage will be auctioned within days.
Attention factory workers: please proceed to the fast-lane immigration desk. Time spent in regular immigration lanes will not be reimbursed.
Dear spaceship captains: please be aware that our outfitters are open all hours of the day. There is never a reason to delay the purchase of your next piece of Syndicate equipment.
Dear traveler: we recommend you to have dinner in our local ${culinary venue} '${restaurant names}'. You will not be disappointed.
Attention course participants: The course 'Efficient Passenger Logistics' has been canceled because the trainer got stuck in transit.
Attention: The safe spaceship piloting training course has been canceled because our instructors crashed their shuttles this morning.
Notice: The course on dealing with space sickness has been canceled because the instructor got seasick.
9 and three quarters
Attention: baggage should not be left unattended. Keep an eye on your belongings at all times.
Note to travelers: the planetary security level has been changed to black.
Be aware that parking restrictions are in effect around the spaceport. Do not leave your personal transport vehicles unattended.
Dear travelers: the spaceport is a strictly no-smoking zone. Thank you for your consideration.
Dear travelers: welcome to our planet. Please remember to synchronize your personal clocks to the local time and night/day cycle duration.
Please stand clear of the doors when the shuttle train is departing.
This is the final boarding call for passengers ${tourist names}, ${tourist names}, and ${tourist names} ${family names}. Please proceed to platform ${platform number} for immediate boarding.
Dear travelers: please take the time to adjust to normal gravity.
Underneath are the words "PEACE AMONG THE STARS."
Underneath are the words "DEATH AMONG THE STARS."
Underneath are the words "TYRANNY AMONG THE STARS."
Underneath are the words "POVERTY AMONG THE STARS."
Underneath are the words "PEACE AMONG THE PARADISE WORLDS."
Underneath are the words "Peace, Prosperity, Progress."
Underneath are the words "Power, Poverty, Pride."
Underneath are the words "Peace, Prosperity, Progress, for those who are born lucky."
Graffiti painted on a wall
A lone, soulless husk. / Appointed immortal king. / To sulk forever.
The galaxy's child / Cursed with madness of time / Behind bloody chains
Too proud for farming / Too poor to buy Paradise / I'll hoist the black flag - Lake
A small cosmological speck drifting in and out of time - Swiren
Tear down the planet / Draw the most perfect circle / Idle endlessly
Polish hull plating / Bring guns and ammunition / When will the blood stop?
Farmer's family / Where's our guardian fleet? / Trapped in Paradise
Built on graveyards / Our infant species pretends / No bodies remain
The honest soldier / Rescue children when Hope dies / Fired by Earth's wisest
Future looking bleak / Desperation reigns supreme / Light the fuse and watch
A little trinket / Into the tempest of blood / Reopen the door
Step into the stars / Listen to the larks dreaming / And open your eye
Combined trinity / Overthrow the ringleaders / Unity through fear
With a change in heart / Seeking to make a new life / But with skin of green
Cloudy star shines dim / Yet your mind is clear as day / Remember the past
Uncover the truth / Let sinners bask in sunlight / Reconcile freedom
No more hope of peace / Become what you most dreaded / Checkmate in seven
When all hope is lost / Unify the warmongers / Become the greater foe
What lies beyond life / A Rampant AI wonders / Exit door leads in - Warlord Mike
There once was a man from New Boston / To fly's a dream he'd had often / He purchased a shuttle / Brought folks in to huddle / Why do merchants call this a coffin? - Lake
There once was a man from New Boston / He picked the ugliest of options / He purchased a star barge / Mission cargo's too large / This shipment's starting to smell rotten... - Lake
There once was a man from New Boston / His loan officer advised caution / He purchased a sparrow / Took off like an arrow- / That sparrow soon turned up at auction. - Lake
A captain with a troubled past / Passed through this system very fast / Was playing a game / Had no proper name / The captain was called "First Last."
Haikus are easy, / but sometimes they don't make sense. / Refrigerator.
Haikus are easy. / I can't think of a good line. / It's snowing on Mount Fuji.
A long time ago / I was respected by all, / but now I sit here.
Mary had a little lamb / Little lamb little lamb / Mary had a little lamb / Whose fleece was white as snow
You think piracy is bad and want to stop us? You and what army?
Messing with the Syndicate, Does That Sound Like Fun to You?
83 percent of all statistics are just made up.
Ask not what your planet can do for you; ask what you can do for your planet.
Fair is foul, and foul is fair - Shakespeare, Macbeth
For want of a shoe, the crewmember was lost. / For want of a crewmember, the ship was lost. / For want of a ship, the fleet was lost. / For want of a fleet, the battle was lost. And all for the want of a shoe.
Shoot for the stars, but make sure you miss or your hull might not last.
Clippy the paperclip was here.
Kilroy was here.
The Joker was here.
Foo went to a Bar.
The Pink Elephant is in a room around here.
An elephant with painted nails was here but not seen by anyone.
Elvis was here. He is alive!
Waldo was here, but where is he now?
The butler did it!
Hello Hero, have you heroically been hammering hostiles?
What do you get when you cross a rhetorical question with a joke?
Spacing out in space is never funny.
Don't put graffiti on the wall here.
A spray-painted circle surrounded by two arrows forms the Republic insignia. ${republic motto graffiti}
A spray-painted tree with a mass of branches in the shape of a brain forms the Deep insignia. ${deep motto graffiti}
Slow spaceships slow down speedy shipping.
Fast Flivvers; ferociously ferrying famous families fast and friendly.
Veni, vidi, hyperjumped away.
Those who dance will be called fools by those who cannot hear the music.
Better half a sentence, 
Glub
Blog
Blop
Blub
Drub
Bloog
Loob
Bloob
Moog
Plug
Ploog
Plort
Plub
Ploot
Toop
Flug
Floot
Flut
Flop
alug
abug
glug
glop
alop
ploot
plug
glub
blug
amug
amog
moog
goom
goot
poot
blut
glob
blag
talug
atug
ptup
blot
arub
root
chee
rrie
Eius
Quis
Exer
Nisi
orum
arum
umus
ibus
ebus
erum
aris
atur
amur
Watchful
Kind
Helpful
Friendly
Pragmatic
Attentive
Observant
Wary
Vigilant
Heedful
Wakeful
Judicious
Mindful
Prudent
Alert
Rigorous
Fastidious
Assiduous
Shielding
Sheltering
Able
Capable
Durable
Forceful
Tenacious
Rugged
Staunch
Sturdy
Unyielding
Adamant
Implacable
Unwavering
Obdurate
Unbending
Steadfast
Undefeated
Enduring
Impervious
Brave
Skilled
Resilient
Devout
Devoted
Disciplined
Determined
Interpreter
Agent
Advocate
Ally
Guard
Custodian
Defender
Helper
Escort
Warden
Curator
Governor
Officer
Overseer
Shepherd
Chief
Superior
Director
Inspector
Preserver
Keeper
Bulwark
Mandator
Convener
Cooperator
Arbiter
Exponent
Guide
Leader
Moderator
Veteran
Regulator
Attendant
Minister
Aspiring
Eager
Striving
Wishful
Longing
Dutiful
Trustworthy
Patriotic
Attached
Trusty
Cherished
Honest
Dependable
Responsible
Virtuous
Willing
Comrade
Confederate
Backup
Assistant
Minder
Squire
Companion
Cadet
Recruit
Pupil
Scout
Patrol
Accomplice
Support
Collaborator
Novice
Junior
Learner
All sentient beings
Sentient beings
All sentient species
Sentient species
All of us
We all
Every species
Every sentient species
Every wise species
Every thoughtful species
Every one of our species
All our species
to live together
to coexist
to work together
to join together
to unite together
to form an alliance
to form a coalition
to stand together
to stand as one people
to be unified
to join our Coalition
to join us
for living
for coexisting
for joining
for standing together
for uniting
in peace
in friendship
in goodwill
for a common cause
to create a just society
to create a prosperous society
in equal partnership
for each other's good
throughout the galaxy
to drive out the oppressors
to take control of our own fate
for the betterment of all
in prosperity
in harmony
are able
can aspire
can try
should seek
should choose
can learn
the capacity have
to be able ought to be
should try
can labor
can serve
are called
are capable
To protect
To protect others
For protection
In order to shield the weak
For the sake of others
To preserve the Coalition
To defend against oppression
So that free you all may be
For the cause of justice
For the greater good
To fulfill our duty
and not
rather than
instead of
above any need
without desire
and never
and not ever
to enrich ourselves
for our own wellbeing
for our own benefit
for our own glory
for glory or power
to win honor
to please ourselves
to misuse our power
for the sake of your praise
for recognition or reward
we serve
you we serve
we vow
we are called
we have vowed
we have committed
we do serve
we do vow
Repairs, we do need
Disabled, our ship has become
Disabled, our ship is
Board our ship, you must
Help, you must
Appreciated, assistance would be
Coalition
alliance
union
friendship of sentient species
citizens of the Coalition
citizens
friendship
just government
just meritocracy
just government of merit
Betraying
Dishonoring
Ruining
Invading
Attacking
Conquering
Oppressing
Backstabbing
you will
you shall
never
succeed
Impossible
No chance
Little chance
Very difficult
Very hard
Not possible
it is 
to defeat
to destroy
to demoralize
to outpower
to be stronger than
to be greater than
committed
disciplined
oathkeeping
powerful
everlasting
legendary
Heliarch
military
law-enforcers
navy
anti-oppressors
Until the end of time
Until the end of life
will
shall
live on
not be destroyed
not be history
not die
not be extinct
Alone, you must leave me, you
Meet me again, you'd better hope never happen, you
Cross me, you'd better not, you
Avenge me, my friends will, you
Away from me, you must stay, you
Board me, I dare the
, you are
at the mercy of, I cannot believe I am
The Heliarch ship hails you, speaking in a language you do not understand.
The Heliarch yell at you in an alien language.
Their translation device must be broken
You can only wonder what they're saying
You drop off the workers on the <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Workers to the <planet>
Transport this crew of <bunks> workers to the Heliarch <planet>, where they will help in the efforts to maintain and expand the ringworld. Payment will be <payment>.
You drop off the volunteers on the <planet>, where they are met by a Heliarch agent. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Volunteers to the <planet>
The government will pay you <payment> to bring these <bunks> volunteer workers to the <planet>, where they will assist in the construction effort in return for room and board.
You drop off the construction materials and receive <payment> in payment.
Materials to the <planet>
Deliver these <tons> of construction materials to the Heliarch <planet> by <date>. Payment will be <payment>.
You drop off the donation of <commodity> and receive <payment> in payment.
Supplies to the <planet>
This shipment of <tons> of supplies is a donation from the government of <origin> to help support the Heliarch <planet>. You will be paid <payment> on delivery.
Candidate to the <planet>
You will be paid <payment> for transporting this candidate for elevation to the rank of Heliarch to the <planet> by <date>.
Heliarch agents meet your ship as soon as it docks and receive the candidate whom you have been transporting, in a small ceremony. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
You drop off the interpreters on <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Interpreters to <planet>
Bring these <bunks> Heliarch agents, trained as interpreters and mediators, to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off the peacekeepers on <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Peacekeepers to <planet>
Transport this corps of <bunks> peacekeepers to <destination> to investigate reports of Resistance activity. Payment is <payment>.
You drop off the settlers on <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Saryds to <planet>
As part of the Interspecies Exchange Program, these <bunks> volunteer settlers need transportation to <destination>. The government will pay their transport fee of <payment>.
Kimek to <planet>
Arachi to <planet>
You drop off the workers on <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Transfer to <planet>
As a part of the Full Employment Program, these <bunks> workers need transportation to <destination>. The government will pay their transport fee of <payment>.
The tourists thank you for bringing them to <planet> and pay you <payment>.
Vacationers to <planet>
These <bunks> tourists will pay you <payment> to bring them to <destination> and desire to travel in a very comfortable ship. Payment is void if they do not arrive by <date>.
The tourists thank you for bringing them home and pay you <payment>.
These <bunks> tourists will pay you <payment> to bring them home to <destination> and desire to travel in a very comfortable ship. Payment is void if they do not arrive by <date>.
The recipient thanks you for bringing the <commodity> here so quickly, and pays you <payment>.
Fast courier to <planet>
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. The payment is <payment>.
You drop off the <commodity> on <planet>, and receive <payment> in payment.
Cargo to <planet>
Bulk cargo to <planet>
Rush Delivery to <planet>
<destination> needs a shipment of <cargo> by <date>. Payment will be <payment>.
Doctors to <planet>
The government will pay you <payment> to bring this team of <bunks> doctors to <destination>, to address a viral outbreak. They must arrive by <date>.
The doctors methodically pack up their equipment and leave your ship. From their lack of urgency, it appears that this is a routine event, not a crisis. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
You drop off the cadets on <planet>. A few minutes later you receive a transfer of <payment>.
Cadets to <planet>
These <bunks> new recruits need transport to the Academy on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
The passengers thank you for bringing them to <planet> and pay you <payment>.
Spectators to <planet>
These <bunks> passengers will pay <payment> for transportation to <planet> in time for the Coalition Games (by <date>).
Transport <bunks> passengers, who were on <origin> for the Coalition Games, back to their home world of <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Sell a jump drive to the Heliarchs for five million credits.
The Heliarchs thank you profusely when they see you've taken them up on their offer, and soon enough several of their ships have landed near your own, apparently having learned of your change of mind and excited to see the exchange, leaving their ships and surrounding yours. Soon enough, they make space for an army of engineers to come and remove the spare jump drive from your ship. Still watching the scene, only now in formations, the Heliarch agents whisper among themselves, rarely shifting their eyes, as if looking at a spectacle.
	Once the drive is out of your ship, it is secured in an excessively reinforced container and transported to a restricted section of the ring, under the guard of hundreds of armed soldiers. One of the Heliarchs who seem to be in charge of the procedure, an Arach, personally comes to you, thanking you again and handing you <payment>. "Honor us you do with such generosity, Captain. Though made great progress in studying jump drives and their mechanisms, we have, still incapable of creating our own, we are, and means of acquiring new copies we have not. Tremendously valuable, each and every drive you could bring us is. If interested in selling any more jump drives, you are, continue to offer you such jobs, we will."
coalition jobs
	She thanks you yet again, salutes, and leaves to follow the entourage guarding the newly purchased jump drive.
reputation: Coalition
reputation: Heliarch
	She thanks you yet again, salutes, and leaves to follow the entourage guarding the newly purchased jump drive. Not a minute after she has left, three more Heliarchs arrive at your ship, a delegation consisting of a member of each of the three Coalition species, all wearing golden circlets denoting their rank and authority. "A most unexpected, but greatly value contribution this is," the Saryd says, "to think that so eager would our visitor be to prove their diligence and commitment."
	The Kimek says, "As aided you have our society in breaking free of the Quarg's cages, with our society's technology may you be trusted."
	"But," says the Arach, "like all civilians, even citizens, to you our weapons and warships we still cannot sell."
	"Why don't you allow civilians to purchase weapons or warships?"
	"For the sake of peace it is," says the Saryd. "The Heliarch military, well trained to use weapons only for defense and only for justice, they are. And to place the needs of the Coalition over the ambitions of their own native species, each one committed is. No such discipline do civilians have, even you. But as a respectful guest you are, to maintain your weapons we shall allow."
	Apparently nothing is for sale here, but they assure you that many Coalition worlds will now grant you access to their shipyards and outfitters. The three Heliarchs all express their deep gratitude for your generosity with providing them a fresh jump drive, and wish you well.
A team of Heliarch engineers carefully removes the spare jump drive from your ship and brings it to a restricted section of the ring. You're approached by the Heliarch who supervised the procedure, who thanks you for bringing in another drive, and hands you the pay of five million credits.
Solar power is the mainstay of the Coalition's merchant marine. The design of these panels has been refined over the millennia, growing ever more efficient.
One of these solar panels is enough to meet the energy needs of a medium-sized Coalition civilian ship, especially given the energy efficiency of their engines and the fact that under their laws only Heliarch ships are allowed to have weapons.
Solar power is sufficient for commerce, but excessive thriftiness is seldom a winning strategy in warfare. For ships that must have a reliable energy source to power weapons, the Heliarchs use compact nuclear reactors.
	A beam of antiprotons triggers fusion in tiny injected fuel pellets, allowing for a complete burnup far more efficient than would otherwise be possible.
Though still unable to replicate Quarg power generation technology, Heliarch science teams are constantly looking to realize their most recent guess on how they work. For this larger module, a steady stream of injected antiprotons catalyzes reactions in carefully confined fusion plasma, extracting as much power as physically possible.
	This advanced fusion reactor was designed for the most powerful Heliarch warships. Its structure has not changed significantly in the millennia since the first battle with the Quarg, but each generation of reactors is made slightly more efficient than the previous ones.
The Kimek originally created much larger versions of this module, intended to provide energy for their hunger towers.
	This compact design recovers much of what would otherwise be waste heat, making it a very efficient fuel cell.
Without much exciting work available in peacetime, many Coalition engineers take to tinkering with existing equipment to improve its efficiency.
Because Coalition ships rely on solar power, they must also be able to store a substantial amount of energy. This small battery pack is much more efficient than comparable human technology.
This battery pack stores enough power to allow a Coalition ship to continue maneuvering even when its solar panels are only producing a fraction of their peak output.
Although combat is almost unheard of in Coalition space, almost all of their ships are able to recharge their shields when necessary.
The Coalition manufactures heavy shield generators for their ships in case they ever face aggression from the Quarg or another species.
These modular shield generators are the most powerful emitters produced in Coalition space, and as such they are strictly controlled and exclusively used by the Heliarchs. The additions made to the Large Shield Module more than tripled its shield generation, but at the cost of it requiring a constant supply of energy to stabilize it.
Arach ships, which rely more on strong hull than on energy shields, often carry one of these repair modules to allow damaged hull plating to be patched back together on the fly.
This hub houses a small fleet of repair robots that can climb around on a ship's hull and repair damage to it, even in the middle of combat.
These advanced repair modules are issued to Heliarch ships, providing hull repair unparalleled in all of Coalition space. The legions of small repair drones come with the extensive pathways they use to quickly get around a ship, and as such the outfit can interfere with a ship's cooling and heat dissipation systems.
This Cooling Module consumes energy. To conserve power, it does not ramp up to full strength unless a ship is very close to overheating.
In their early days of space exploration, the Saryds developed the Fuel Module to travel far from Saros without worrying about becoming stranded without fuel, or sudden fuel leaks.
	Nowadays, nearly every system in the Coalition has refueling facilities, but some captains still find use in the extra jumps these modules offer.
This system allows the Heliarchs to scan nearby ships, enabling them to detect weapons or illegal goods.
Completed with the data from one of their long-lost satellites, the newest scanner of House Idriss excels at reading various energy signatures across vast distances.
	Constantly running its calculations about every little thing it detects within its impressive range, the gauger needs a steady supply of energy to function.
This tiny thruster produces a considerable amount of thrust... but also a considerable amount of heat.
Coalition engineers prefer to focus on perfecting a few versatile designs rather than producing a wide range of them. This thruster is quite efficient, but large ships will need several of them stacked together to produce sufficient thrust.
Placing this tiny thruster in the front of a freighter or transport allows Coalition merchants to considerably improve their energy efficiency, which is of great benefit when relying on solar power.
With their significant weapons capacity left unused in peacetime, captains of larger Coalition freighters and transports can use Large Reverse Modules to rapidly slow their ships, allowing them to save both time and energy.
Despite its high efficiency, this module is not sufficient for any but the tiniest of ships. Instead, the modules are designed with the expectation that ships may use two or three of them in tandem.
By focusing on small, modular engines rather than the massive capital ship drives that most other species develop, the Coalition loses some of the potential efficiency for very large ships, but gains a considerable amount of flexibility.
The peak of Heliarch combat engineering, this weapon uses condensed blasts of energy to dispatch any who dare threaten the Coalition safety.
Made to deal with the occasional dissidents that pop up around Coalition space in a non-lethal manner, these weapons see minimal use in shipbound combat, but are carried anyway in the event a dissident gets aboard.
Completed a lot of Coalition jobs and received permission to purchase civilian technology and ships.
Walking through the spaceport, you're approached by a Saryd in unusually traditional clothing, even by Saryd standards. Silk robes not too different from human kimonos cover most of his body, and thin ropes tightly wrap around the fabric near his hoofs.
	"Greetings, Captain. Interested in participating in a cultural celebration, would you be?" he asks.
	"What sort of celebration?"
	"A celebration of Saryd folklore, it is," he explains. "Though for a long time among the stars we've lived, timeless classics from before our spacefaring age, we still celebrate. A set of theatrical plays about some of them, today we are hosting. Watch them for free, anyone can."
	"I've always got time for a story. Lead the way."
	"I'm not really up for a story now. I'll pass."
	You follow him outside the spaceport city and deep into a nearby forest. On the way there, several other Saryds in similar ancient garbs are guiding others who were also intrigued by the offer.
	You arrive at a clearing with three different paths to take, and you can make out a faint light from deep within each of them. After a few minutes, it seems as if all the Saryds involved in the celebration have arrived. They grab three caskets from behind a bush and lay them before you and the others they brought here.
	"Now friends, choose your path, you must," one of the Saryds says, and many from the crowd grab small objects from the caskets, seemingly already familiar with this. You move forward to look into the caskets and see that each one has different things inside: the left one is full of seeds, the middle one full of seashells, and the right one full of feathers.
	(Grab a seed.)
	(Grab a seashell.)
	(Grab a feather.)
	Once you have the feather in your hands, the organizers tell you to go through the path on the right.
	The light you had seen turns out to be a bonfire near a wooden stage, about a third of the size of human opera stages, and you find a spot to sit on one of the logs positioned near the fire. Several lights shine onto the stage, and as you look up, you can only barely see some spotlights hidden high up in the trees. After the audience is all gathered, the curtains of the stage open to reveal many small figures made out of what looks like paper in a style that loosely resembles origami. They are supported either by thin wooden poles from below or strings from above. There are figures close to where the curtains were and others further away on the stage, the various layers granting depth to the scenery. After a brief moment, the show begins:
	Entering a clearing, a Saryd huntress with gray hair stalks a large bird resting on a rock. She moves on the borders of the clearing, hiding behind bushes and small trees. She looks for the best spot from which to snipe at the bird, her bow and arrow ready in her hands. It's only when she is nearing a large entrance to the clearing, on the opposite side of where she entered, that she finds the spot, and takes aim.
	She is disrupted when she hears a loud roar and jumps to the ground, narrowly avoiding the beast that had come from behind her. You're unsure how accurate the paper's depiction of the creature is, but you can only describe it as a "hedge-lion": slightly larger than lions from Earth, with various quills where its mane should be. The quills continue in a line on its back, reaching the tip of the tail.
	Having dodged the pounce, the huntress runs past the bird, looking for cover, but the forest isn't dense enough to block the beast's advance. It attacks again, and wounds the top of one of her frontal legs. She kicks it with another leg and readies an arrow, but only manages to scratch its face. The animal gets on its hind legs to swipe down at her but is stunned; the bird has attacked its eyes, blinding it! The huntress is swift to take aim in the opening granted, and an arrow pierces the creature's torso. Once the hedge-lion has fallen, the bird flies away, and the curtains close.
	Once you have the seed in your hands, the organizers tell you to go through the path on the left.
	The central figure is a young Saryd boy, galloping through a dense forest. Sound effects of thunder begin and grow increasingly frequent, echoing around you as if in a real thunderstorm. A white piece of paper, shaped like a lightning bolt, comes down swiftly and strikes one of the trees in the boy's way. Flame-shaped folds rain down from the top of the stage and stick to the tree as it falls, blocking the boy's path. He turns to run elsewhere. Another lightning bolt, and another tree falls. After a few more repetitions, the boy is too tired to run anymore. Hurt by some of the flames, he is now limping through the forest.
	Whimpering as the thunder grows closer once more, he spots a tree unlike the others, a great oak with branches thicker than the other trees around him. He goes to it and lays down at its base, and soon he falls asleep as the curtain closes.
	It opens once again after a few moments, with the boy waking up in darkness. When he gets up, rumbling sounds are accompanied by rays of light reaching the ground, and he realizes the great oak had lowered its branches around him. As it lifts them up, the several smaller trees that had fallen on the mighty oak's branches during the storm are scattered away. The sun as his guide, the boy manages to leave the forest, and the curtains close again.
	Once you have the seashell in your hands, the organizers tell you to go through the path in the middle.
	A Saryd is on top of some sort of long, wooden platform, with a deep blue background under it. Only when you see the fishing rod do you realize that he is on a boat, fishing at sea. He feels a bite, but when he reels it in, there is nothing on the hook. He feels another bite and again finds nothing. Time and again, he looks at the hook to find the bait still there, intact, yet he continues to feel bites, some so powerful even the boat moves a little. The day moves by quickly, with a piece of paper representing the sun moving swiftly from one side of the "sky" to the other.
	Once it is night, the waves grow increasingly stronger, and the Saryd stops fishing altogether. He puts the rod on the boat and tries to steer it back to shore, but he can't find his way. A huge wave that goes beyond the stage's top approaches, and engulfs the boat.
	The fisherman kicks and struggles for air, having lost his boat and still at the mercy of the great waves. The view on the stage starts going down, following the kicks, and something starts rising up to meet the Saryd's legs. As it raises the view back with it, a creature reminiscent of a whale, only with much larger, longer flippers that almost link to its tail, comes to the surface. It rises gently and with care, as if trying to serve as ground for the sailor. Another wave is approaching, large enough to engulf them both, but the whale keeps on going up until it is out of the water.
	As it flies through the night sky, the whale is careful to not drop the Saryd, always waiting for him to find stable footing before turning. For the rest of the night, the whale slowly dances in the sky, and when morning comes and the waves subside, it goes back to the sea and swims close to shore. Once the Saryd is at the beach, he turns back to see the whale's tail hitting the water as it dives deep once again, and the curtains close.
	People in the audience start getting up and performing a short bow toward the stage, with both hands clenched together close to their chests, as if silently applauding the performance. Once most of them are done, they prepare to leave, and you follow them. Once you're back at the clearing, you return the small object back to its casket after seeing others do the same, and the organizers guide everyone back to the spaceport.
	Once there, the Saryd who first approached you says, "That you enjoyed the spectacle, I hope," and bids you farewell.
Shortly after entering the spaceport, you observe an Arach in what you guess is a formal "dress," a delicate silk wrap covering most of her body with each leg covered by its own embroidered skirt. She exclaims something loudly into a personal communication device before putting it away with a shove. Like everyone else who has momentarily been witness to this, you go to look away, but the Arach has cast their gaze around, seen you, and immediately begun to approach. "Our honorable human visitor, I salute," she says loudly as she closes the gap. "Say, Captain, appreciate the fine arts, do you? To a cultural soiree, I'm headed, but busy with work, dearest Papa is, so vacant, his reserved seat is. Accompany me, would you?"
	"Is that some sort of event?"
	"I'm busy right now, so I'll pass."
	"No simple gathering, but a collection of plays by esteemed professionals, completed by a dedicated orchestra, the soiree is," she explains. "A celebration of Arach folklore, it is, which in our finest outfits, us local patrons attend. Streamed live for others, the show also is, but compare to the live performance, it cannot."
	"Alright, I'm interested. Where is this 'soiree' taking place?"
	"I'm not a fan of plays, sorry."
	You follow her around the central portion of the city to a building which from the outside looks like some form of auditorium; there, some Arachi in uniform are seeing to the entries of the "patrons" of the event. "A human? Quite an exotic guest you've brought, lady Matlub," one of them says to your guide as she shows him a touchpad displaying two tickets. He verifies them and allows the two of you to enter. The inside reminds you of an opera house, with a large stage in front of dozens of rows of seats, and six levels of balconies on both sides. Matlub leads you to two excellent seats in one of the first few rows, and she helps you "adjust" the chair so that you're more comfortably seated. Just before the stage is an area a few steps below the level of the seats, with a few Arach musicians fine-tuning a variety of instruments. Up on the ceiling, and on all of the balconies, you see small cameras pointed at the stage to broadcast the event for those who didn't have the chance to attend it live.
	As the rows and balconies fill up with more guests, you notice a few Kimek and Saryds amidst the masses of Arachi, most of them accompanying an Arach patron; a few are seemingly patrons themselves, coming in on their own. A great many of them seem to take notice of you as you look around, but your patron studiously ignores the attention.
	"I can see why you were speaking so highly about this, looks like a really organized event."
	"Not every day that they see a human in one of these, I take it?"
	She nods. "A prestigious event, this is. Bring friends from all around the Coalition to watch, the patrons do. The most unique guest we've had, you are."
	Once all seats are filled, the doors are closed, and an Arach comes to the stage. "Welcome you, esteemed guests, to this celebration of saga and song, our theater does," he says. "Make you wait any longer, I shall not, so for our first play, a timeless classic dear to all, I present: Moonstruck."
	He quickly leaves the stage as the curtains open to reveal a rocky wall with two tunnels leading to the sides. The orchestra begins to play a slow, soft theme on accordion-like instruments, and a young Arach comes into the scene from the tunnel on the left. He hangs onto the rocky wall, a small lantern hanging from his abdomen and a large sack strapped to his back. The Arach then picks rocks from the corners of the wall, throwing most to the ground but placing a few inside the sack he carries. Once the sack is full, he enters the tunnel on the right, and the rocky wall is rotated to show the other side; there, the young miner is shown under the night sky smelting the ore he collected. As he looks to the top of the stage with his back facing the audience, the accordions grow quieter, a slow harp starts to play, and a full moon comes into view at the top of the background sky.
	The curtains close as the scene changes, opening again with the accordions picking up the pace. The Arach is now on a larger wall with only one tunnel from above. He claws away at the rocky corners, the accordions following his rhythm. Once he's dug out most of the ore, the wall starts shaking, as if the mine were collapsing. The accordions become erratic as he rushes for the escape tunnel. With a hectic clamor, the rock wall appears to disassemble on stage with great boulders descending gracefully from the fly tower, caving in the mine. The accordions stop, but after a long pause they, along with the harp, slowly pick up again. The young Arach then climbs into view and pushes first one boulder away, and then another, and another. This goes on until the Arach stands atop a mountain of metal carved out of the rock, reaching for the moon. As he nearly touches it, the curtains close and the music stops.
	The Arachi in the audience rub two of their legs together, as if clapping at the end of the performance. Shortly after, some get up, heading to the exit as the doors open up once again. At the same time, more patrons are coming in to fill the vacant seats. "Interested in only some of the plays, some patrons are, so only for those they wish to see, they stay," Matlub explains. "Leave after any of the performances, you may, if someplace else, you must be, but remain for the rest of the show, I will."
	(Stay for the next play.)
	Once everyone is seated, the same Arach from before goes to the stage again. "A surprise for you, tonight we have. A brand new play, an anonymous group of patrons commissioned. As a critique of one of the issues that persist in our society, described it is. For our second play: Babbling Bebliss."
	As he leaves, the curtains open to a set of an Arach street, where a child is purchasing some form of candy. From behind a building in the set, an Arach wearing tall, blue and white "socks" emerges as trumpets and tubas start playing an obnoxious track. He runs for the child and knocks the candy to the ground as he makes some gargling sound. Matlub sighs, saying, "Gibberish, it is. Nonsense, and words best left untranslated." The Arach actor goes on to cling to the walls of the building and grab things from inside the candy shop, throwing them wildly. By now, many well-dressed patrons, most likely members of House Bebliss, are getting up and leaving the theater. Meanwhile, a group of Arachi on one of the balconies doesn't even try to muffle their laughter.
	The scene continues as a couple comes to the set, walking down the street. As they're about to lean in for what looks like a kiss, the Arach leaps from the building, landing on the bachelor with a thud. He steals the kiss, as the tubas and trumpets blast as loudly as they can. After a while, the authorities show up, only for the Arach to make a run for it down the street. The orchestra plays a tune that is as uncoordinated as his movements, and the curtains close. Not many in the audience manifest themselves, most sighing or getting ready to leave, save for the group that was laughing earlier who are now very vocal in announcing their appreciation for the play. "Know of subtlety, House Chamgar does not," Matlub says. "A shame it is, that tainted the soiree with this rivalry, they have."
	The doors open once again as new patrons cycle in to watch the third play.
	Everyone takes their seats, and the Arach announcer heads to the stage again. "A cathartic tragedy, our third play of this evening is. For our next performance: 'Til Death."
	The stage lights go dark as the curtains open to a single spotlight. It illuminates an old Arach getting dressed inside a small shack on the right side of the stage. He coughs, and something akin to an organ begins to play a melancholic melody. Once he leaves, the shack is left in the dark as the spotlight follows him to the middle of the stage, where he makes his way carefully down an empty street. He is allowed to pass beyond the spotlight, which goes dark as the perspective shifts and a second spotlight renews the focus. The left side of the stage is finally lit up, where the Arach starts tending to a garden by the entrance of a manor. The organ stops its weeping every once in a while, right when the Arach is coughing, only to resume once he's done. Leaving the manor, a richly dressed Arach points to one of the flowers in the garden, showing it to be shriveled and dead. He plucks it and throws it to the ground before leaving. The gardener picks up the flower, sticks it inside his clothes, and continues his work.
	Once his work is done, he heads back to his shack, the spotlights following him as he moves around the stage. Once inside, he looks inside a small box, taking a simple vase and placing the flower inside it. The stage goes dark as he goes to sleep and the piano stops, with only the occasional cough echoing throughout the theater. When the light comes to the shack again, the Arach slowly gets up and again leaves for his job, pausing for a moment on the street part of the stage during a heavy coughing fit. Once he's done with the work and begins going back home, he starts coughing again, not letting up for more than a second at a time. During this the spotlights transition to the next section of the stage, and the piano plays a brief note. Once inside his shack, he collapses, knocking down the flower vase in the process. The piano plays a few slow chords, and the last spotlight goes out during the final note.
	You hear the curtains closing, and the lights of the theater turn back on again as the audience is taken by a round of applause. Once they've settled, the announcer goes up to the stage again. "And with that, concluded, our soiree is. Thank you all for gracing us with your presence, I, in name of the theater, do." He lowers his head in a bow and leaves the stage again as nearly all of the patrons in the audience get up and head for the exit, this time with nobody else coming in to take their seats. At the same time, the orchestra starts packing up their instruments. There are, however, a few who remain in their seats, including Matlub.
	(Stay.)
	You thank Matlub for inviting you here, and while she doesn't seem to pay you much mind, you can feel the gazes of other Arach patrons on you, whispering among themselves as you leave.
	The theater workers leave one after the other, leaving you and the other guests with an empty stage. After a while, the lights are turned off. A couple minutes later, however, you hear the curtains open, as some violins start to play in unison. Their music doesn't come from where the orchestra was seated, but as if they were all over the theater, behind you and even up on the balconies. A strong light comes from the stage, most of it blocked by a tall, dark figure. It isn't an actor, however, instead seeming to be made out of wooden parts kept up by thin wires you can barely spot when looking at the top of the stage. The violins' song is disrupted by dull, successive drum hits, at which point the figure moves, with its "arms" opening to the sides; it becomes even taller as it stands up. It is a humanoid creature, and it begins to slowly move around the stage, as if dancing in a pendulum. Cellos join in with the violin screams, and are followed by a choir, though you cannot understand their words. You do recognize, however, that it isn't being sung in any language of the Coalition.
	The creature appears to get closer to the audience, growing in size, and as the choir and instruments become more intense, it swings one of its arms upward and removes the wires. Despite this, it stays upright and continues to move. It brings both arms close and strikes its own head to form two small holes which the background light shines through. Then, it falls to its knees, with one arm reaching for the audience, as the light behind it turns off and the choir and music subside.
	The lights turn back on, revealing curtains still open, but nothing on the stage. A few workers come in to tidy up the place, and the remaining guests now get up to leave. "Enjoyed the soiree, have you, Captain?" Matlub asks, as she herself gets up to leave. "Come now, actually over, the show now is."
	"What the hell was that thing?"
	"If it only ended now, why did that announcer come up after the third play to dismiss the guests?"
	She doesn't answer, heading straight for the exit. You follow her outside, and she guides you back to your ship. "Thankful for you accompanying me, I am, Captain. Safe travels, may you have."
A Kimek flags you down when you enter the spaceport. "Busy are you, Captain?" he asks. "Taking place today, a cultural festival is, and participate in it, anyone can. A reenactment of the old 'Spring Siege' folk tale, it is. Play the part of one of the characters, anyone can."
	"That sounds like fun. Where is it being held?"
	"Sorry, I'm too busy right now for that."
	He asks you to follow him, and the two of you board a train leading to another section of the city, where you exit the train at the edge of a large park. There, you see that many sets of camps dot the savanna plains, and an equal number of wooden forts stare down from the top of a long hill. Each "set" of fort and camp is separated from the others by many patches of vegetation that go up the hill.
	You follow the Kimek for a while longer until he finds you a pairing of camp and fort that have a vacant spot in either side. "Well Captain, choose a side to play as, you must. The hang of it, you will get, once started, the event has, but as a quick summary, take the 'crops' inside the fort before time runs out, the attacking team must. Prevent them from doing that, the defenders must. At the end, rewarded, the victors are."
	"I'll join the attackers."
	"I'll join the defenders."
	"Hang on, if this is a folk tale, how come you're reenacting it as if any side could win?"
	He chitters, as if expecting the question. "Witnessed by a minstrel, the battle was. Traveling on fields like these, he was, before the fort and the raider camp, he spotted in the distance. Hid himself in foliage close to the scene, he had, and writing and painting it as it happened, he was. When reached its climax, the battle had, swept up by the wind, many flowers were, and block his vision they did. Once settled down the wind had, over, the battle was. Spring it was, so 'Spring Siege' became the story's title."
	Seeing you have more questions now, he continues. "Silly and nonsensical at times, the story is. Know that, we do, and that simply looking to entertain a crowd, the minstrel was, but with all forms of classic tales, is that not the case?" He chitters some more, and looks at the group up on the hill and the other in the camp, before continuing. "Foreign as it might seem, participate in it, will you not? Perhaps like it, you might."
	"Alright, I'll join the attackers."
	"Alright, I'll join the defenders."
	He brings you to the small fort up the hill. Its gates open as those inside (mostly Kimek as expected, but also a couple Arachi and a lone Saryd) are still getting ready. A small "farm" sits in the middle, with plastic replicas serving as the crops. The walls of the fort are made of various tall logs, densely covered by tufts of vicious, reddish thorns nearly as long as your arm. Inside, you can see that a higher level with battlements is accessible via staircases on either side of the courtyard; you also notice that the defenders are all wearing a green strip of cloth over their clothing. Another Kimek organizer, wearing a rugged leather vest that you assume is the Kimek equivalent of medieval armor, comes to meet you both at the gate. He greets his colleague, who introduces you and says that you have chosen to join the defenders, before heading back down the hill.
	"Glad to have you as part of the garrison, our fort is," the armored Kimek begins. "Told about the enemy's objective, I assume you have been. Protect our farm, we must, so allow the produce to be stolen, we cannot." He tells you to follow him to the "keep," a shack too small for any non-Kimek, and gives you a long piece of green cloth. He then informs you that it is meant to be worn, so that others can tell what team you are on. As you wrap it around you like a scarf, you notice that, behind the shack, there is a smaller gate that grants entry to the fort. Once you're done, he gives you a brief tour of the rest of the fort, taking you up the battlements and above the main gate, where you see buckets of what at first appears to be water. Your guide informs you that the liquid inside is actually quite slick, and during the re-enactment, it is poured downhill to slow the attackers.
	Once he's done, he tells you to wait in the courtyard, as the "battle" will begin soon. A few minutes pass before a loud whistle blows, and the Kimek in charge of the fort tells everyone that the other side has begun their attack. The front gate is closed, and some of the defenders begin placing heavy objects behind to barricade it; others are already up by the battlements, waiting for the right time to use the buckets of slippery liquid.
	(Help reinforce the main gate.)
	(Go help slow down the attackers.)
	You join the others in gathering and moving heavy objects, and quickly find some crates behind the small shack, which a couple of Arachi help bring to the gate. Some Kimek take logs they find stashed under a staircase and bring them as well, burying one end in the ground with the other end against the door. The liquid poured on the attackers does slow them down for some minutes, but once you're done, they're already banging at the gate. Most of those inside the fort, particularly the Saryd that has joined in, head to the main gate to try and keep it closed, but a few Kimek head around the back to check on the smaller gate.
	(Help keep the main gate closed.)
	(Go with the others and check the back gate.)
	Once you get to the back gate, you and the Kimek there stay quiet and try to listen for anyone approaching this side of the fort. Sure enough, you hear scuttling Kimek legs swishing through the grass as the attackers come circling around. Fortunately, not many came to this gate, so, with your help, your Kimek teammates don't have much trouble keeping the gate closed. Thanks to the main gate having been reinforced, the group there holds well enough that some more come to the back to help, and after some minutes of struggling with the attackers on the gate, another whistle is sounded. It marks that time has run out and that the defenders have won.
	With the fortifications from earlier helping keep it shut, holding the main gate proves easy enough. After a few minutes pass, however, you hear a commotion from behind the shack. As you and others go there to check, you arrive to see the small gate open, the attackers, wearing blue sashes in place of your team's green, having already made their way inside. The whistle sounds again, marking the end of the battle and the victory of the attackers.
	You go up the stairs and are given one of the buckets with the slippery substance. You notice that the others up here are all Kimek and Arachi, however, and they are only pouring the liquid down directly in front of the gate. When you see some of the blue sash wearing attackers advancing from the sides, where the liquid hasn't been poured, you chuck a bucket their way. This leaves a line of the liquid on that side, and those attacking from there lose their footing, tripping and falling again and again. Once your teammates realize what you've done, they begin to egg you on, encouraging you to throw more buckets to cover the sides while they continue to drench the middle. Despite your efforts, however, the attackers do eventually make it up the hill and start banging at the gate. Most of those inside the fort, including the Saryd, head to the main gate to try and keep it closed, but some Kimek instead head around the back to check on the smaller gate.
	Once you get to the back gate, you and the Kimek there stay quiet and try to listen for anyone approaching this side of the fort. Sure enough, you hear scuttling Kimek legs swishing through the grass as the attackers come circling around. Fortunately, not many came to this gate, so, with your help, your Kimek teammates don't have much trouble keeping the gate closed. The group at the front gate isn't so lucky, however, and after a brief minute, the whistle sounds again. Your group comes back to the courtyard to find that the gate has been busted open and that the attackers with their blue sashes have won.
	At first, holding the gate isn't too troublesome, but after a few minutes pass, it starts being pounded by some form of battering ram, and before long the group there can't hold it closed. At the same time, you hear a commotion from behind the shack, and as you and others go there to check, you arrive to see the small gate open. The attackers having made their way inside via both gates, the whistle sounds again, marking the end of the battle and the victory of the other side.
	He brings you to the nearby camp, where many Kimek, Arachi, and even a few Saryds are gathered for the event. Most of them are waiting in anticipation inside one of the tents, or looking up at the fort; all of them have long, blue strips of cloth over their own clothing. Once she notices you two, another Kimek organizer, donning what looks like a thin gambeson, comes to say hello. She greets her colleague, who then introduces you and tells her you have chosen to join the attackers, before leaving the camp to welcome a family who has come to watch the event.
	"Honored to have you fight alongside us, our company is," the armored Kimek begins. "Told about our objective, I assume you have been. Break into the fort, we must, before up the time is. Ten minutes, we have, once started, the battle has." She tells you to follow her to the "war tent," one that's slightly larger than the others around it. There she gives you a long piece of blue cloth and informs you that it is meant to be worn so that others can tell what team you are on. Wrapping it around your neck like a scarf while you look around the main tent, you see that there is a stumpy log reinforced with metal bits stored here, which the Kimek tells you will be used as a battering ram to force open the gates. She then has you follow her to the edge of the camp to show you the limits of this "set," which is marked by patches of vegetation meant to indicate the boundaries of the game. "Also, discourage anyone from trying it, the thorns should, but against the rules, it is, to crawl up the walls of the fort, so-" She pauses, looking at you as if just realizing that such a thing is impossible for you. "Sorry, out of habit, I said it. Participate in this event, not many groundlocked people do; few Saryds here I've met. Even fewer humans, as imagine, you can."
	Once she's done, she says you're free to roam the camp as you wait for the "battle" to begin. A few minutes pass before a loud whistle blows, and the Kimek in charge of the camp tells everyone that the time has come. She leads the charge up the hill, with most of those from the camp following her. Others split into smaller groups and instead move up along the trees that separate the sets, trying to approach the fort from the sides.
	(Charge with the main group.)
	(Take the longer side route.)
	You follow the lead of the Kimek and start to run straight up the hill, directly at the fort. Once you get closer, however, you see the defenders, garbed in strips of green cloth as opposed to your blue, pouring out buckets of what looks like water. As it flows down the hill to meet your steps, though, you immediately lose your balance and your feet slip out from under you, and you slide a short distance back down the hill. You get up, but, try it as you may, you cannot find stable footing in the wet grass, instead having to step on the few tufts that have grown too high for the liquid to cover them. Even with all their legs, the Kimek and Saryds fare no better, and find themselves in similar trouble, losing their balance again and again. Only the Arachi can press onward, digging down into the dirt beneath the grass with half their legs at each step. They slowly but surely help you and the others move up, and eventually you reach the gate, only to find that the groups that came from the sides are already working on busting it open. You can also see what the Kimek meant when she spoke of "thorns;" tufts of vicious, reddish barbs nearly as long as your arm cover the logs that make up the walls.
	(Try and find another way in.)
	(Help the others bust the gate open.)
	You start pushing along with the others, the Saryds joining you from below, and the Kimek and Arachi crawling up to push at the top of the gate. They take turns with each others when one gets tired so that someone is always pushing, even though their attempts aren't the most effective. After a while, you hear a cracking noise, and the gate finally begins budging slightly, as if something barricading it had broken off. As the latecomers of the main force come up, bringing with them the battering ram, everyone makes way for them to begin hammering it against the gate. The gate shudders with each hit and gradually begins to give even more, but even the battering ram team cannot break through fast enough as the whistle from the start of the event sounds again. Evidently this means that time has run out, and the defenders have won.
	You and a part of the group stick close to the walls and follow along them to the other side, careful not to scratch yourself on the thorns along the fort. You soon find another, smaller gate, and begin pushing. Unlike what you can see of the efforts you left at the main gate, you can feel this one budging immediately, and there is no slick ground to worry about. Once they realize the vulnerability of this gate, the Saryds in the group ask others to move out of the way. You are a bit startled as they suddenly charge it in unison, almost forcing it open with a single concerted effort. More defenders come to hold it, though, and the gate becomes increasingly difficult to move any further. One Arach heads back to the main group to call for more help, but when they arrive, so do more defenders. The struggle continues for many minutes, with the attackers alongside you unable to make a final breakthrough. The whistle sounds again, marking the end of the battle, announcing that the defenders have won.
	You follow a group to the edges of this set, losing some time before beginning your run up the hill. Once you finally start making your way up, you turn to see the main group repeatedly tripping and falling back. It seems the defenders, who are wearing green identifiers instead of blue, are pouring some slippery liquid down from the battlements above the gate, slowing those that are coming along a direct path. You reach the top while the main force still struggles, and your group makes its way to the gate. On your way, you see what the Kimek meant when she spoke of "thorns," with closely-spaced tufts of vicious, reddish barbs nearly as long as your arm covering the logs that make up the walls. You reach the gate, but as you push and push, it refuses to budge even the slightest bit, clearly having been barricaded from the inside. The main group eventually catches up to you, but even with many more people pushing now, the gate still holds firm and unmoving.
	(Continue trying to bust the gate open.)
	You and a part of the group stick close to the walls and follow along them to the other side, careful not to scratch yourself on the thorns along the fort. You soon find another, smaller gate, and begin pushing. Unlike what you can see of the efforts you left at the main gate, you can feel this one budging immediately, and there is no slick ground to worry about. Once they realize the vulnerability of this gate, the Saryds in the group ask others to move out of the way. You are a bit startled as they suddenly charge it in unison, almost forcing it open with a single concerted effort. More defenders come to hold it, though, and the gate becomes increasingly difficult to move any further. One Arach heads back to the main group to call for more help, but when they arrive, so do more defenders. The struggle continues for a while, before you hear loud bangs from the other side of the fort. The Kimek organizer comes around the back to tell everyone to return to the main entrance. As you come to the main gate, you see the battering ram has forced the main gate open, something that must've been made easier with so many leaving it unguarded to instead defend the back gate. With that, the whistle sounds again, marking the end of the battle, announcing that the attackers have won.
	The Kimek organizer in charge of your side starts a cheer, which quickly spreads to the others. After the leaders of both teams meet to greet each other, everyone is asked to return the colored cloth they were given and make their way down the hill. Your group is pointed to a nearby building to wash off any dirt, if needed. Once you're all cleaned up, you head back to the camp, where the Kimek who brought you here is waiting to guide your group to many short tables with plates on them; apparently, the reward for winning is a feast. As most of those who participate are Kimek, almost all of the food comes the way they prefer it: a soupy, half-digested mess. Thankfully there are a few meals prepared the way the other species like them, meaning you can pick one prepared for Saryds; their meals are the closest you can get to human cuisine here.
	The Saryd first course offered consists of many cooked vegetables, arranged in a little mound on the plate, with a thin trail of steam still coming from them. Talking with the organizers, you learn that the meals are meant to represent the produce of the fort's "farm," and that those who win earn the right to the banquet. Once you're done eating, you return to where the train dropped you off and get on the next one heading back to the spaceport.
	The Kimek organizer of the other side starts a cheer, which quickly spreads to the others. After the leaders of both teams meet to greet each other, everyone is asked to return the colored cloth they were given and make their way down the hill. Your group is pointed to a nearby building to wash off any dirt, if needed. Once you're all cleaned up, the Kimek who brought you here is waiting by the camp to guide your opponents to many short tables with plates on them; apparently, the reward for winning is a feast. "A shame it is, that lost the battle your team has," he says. "But hopefully, still fun with the event you had."
	Before he leaves with the victors, he explains a bit more about the event, telling you that the meals that will be served at the banquet are meant to represent the produce of the fort's "farm," and that those who win earn the right to it. Finally, he thanks you for participating, and goes with the winners to the tables. You return to where the train dropped you off and get on the next one heading back to the spaceport.
These hardy little cargo ships are the perfect size for young Arachi just setting out into the sky with dreams of one day building their own merchant fleets. Of course, an Arach lucky enough to be born into one of the great Houses can probably find a patron to buy them a much larger ship instead.
Arach cargo ship hulls are legendary for their durability. It is not uncommon for a large Arach family to convert a freighter that is no longer space-worthy into a planet-side dwelling, and even in the harshest of conditions these converted houses can last for hundreds of years with little or no exterior maintenance.
The Arachi believe that efficient functionality is the highest form of beauty, and none of their ships demonstrate that principle more clearly than the ugly yet utilitarian Hulk, designed with detachable side pods that can be swapped out on a planet in a matter of minutes if the captain is in a hurry to reach the next destination.
The Arach Hulk is an ungainly, lumbering behemoth of a ship, but with its side pods removed it becomes the much more maneuverable Spindle. Because of its much lower cargo space, usually the only reason a fleet would include a Spindle is if they are planning on picking up new cargo pods at their destination.
The Arach Transport is the oldest of their ship designs, dating back to the time when they first joined the Coalition in overthrowing the Quarg and capturing their ringworlds. Back then, Transports were occasionally used as warships, but now, thousands of years later, they are considered outdated compared to the latest Heliarch military ships.
The Breacher isn't the most durable Heliarch vessel, but its impressive forward speed and high firepower for its size make this ship ideal for strafing runs.
Although they mostly serve as patrol vessels nowadays in peacetime, Hunters were originally designed to quickly track down dissidents and bring them to justice.
Anyone who incurs the wrath of the Heliarchs cannot count on making a fast getaway thanks to the Interdictors, which were primarily designed to carry a pair of attractor and repulsor beams that can hold a ship a safe distance away while pushing it around enough to prevent it from getting a hyperspace lock to jump out of the system.
During their time battling the Quarg, the Coalition focused on producing the strongest, toughest warships they could, so fightercraft were out of the question. Now, however, the Heliarch's shield matrix and hull integrity technology is much more advanced, and they have recently experimented with such ships. The Judicator was made for transportation of these new fighters.
	Alongside their six fighter bays, Judicators come with a large bunk count and higher cargo space than other Heliarch warships, thus doubling as a logistics vessel for transporting troops and equipment.
The most common Heliarch patrol ship, Neutralizers are designed to be just strong enough to keep an enemy vessel occupied until reinforcements can arrive.
Although not quite as strong or powerful as the Quarg ships that they are designed to oppose, Heliarch Punishers are versatile and durable ships. Rumors say that the Heliarchs have a small stash of stolen Quarg Skylances that they can outfit the Punishers with in times of war.
Occasionally, when a Heliarch cadet shows promising results in dogfighting simulations, they are allowed to fly a ship of their own: the Pursuer.
	Though certainly not as durable as the other fighters in Coalition space, this Kimek design is cheaper to produce and capable of outrunning any other Coalition ship.
The very first fighter they designed, Rovers are well-rounded ships that the Heliarchs employ regularly due to their reliability in any situation.
Boasting incredible durability for a ship this size, the Stalker is a compact fortress that can take serious punishment and recover faster than some warships. Its speed and maneuverability, however, leave much to be desired.
With more than twice the population of the Saryds and Arachi combined, the Kimek are constantly in need of transport ships to carry individuals from one world to another.
The Spire is the largest passenger transport in Coalition space, able to carry nearly three hundred individuals... as long as they're comfortable staying in the tiny bunk rooms that are primarily designed to meet the needs of a Kimek. Most of the ceilings are too short for a Saryd to stand up straight, and the beds are too small for an Arach to stretch their legs out comfortably.
The Kimek love traveling so much that some of them will happily spend months at a time in a transport this size, and the passengers often grow into a tight-knit community by the end of their journeys together.
The Thorn is the Kimek equivalent of a shuttle, and thanks to their speed and maneuverability they are used throughout Coalition space for transferring passengers from one ship to another or from a planet into orbit.
Saryds place high value both on solitude, but also on community and collaboration. So, it is not surprising that their smallest spacefaring vessel requires a team of at least two individuals to operate it. It is quite common for a lone Saryd to take on a Kimek or Arach copilot as a way of building cross-species friendships.
When the first wars were fought against the Quarg, the Saryds had been spacefaring for more than ten thousand Earth years, and their starship technology was considerably more advanced than the Kimek or the Arachi. At that time, ships similar to the modern Sojourner were the most powerful capital ships in the Coalition fleet.
Travelers were originally designed as science vessels, thousands of years ago before the Saryds had catalogued all the life forms and physical phenomena of every world in Coalition space. Today, many Saryd communities still choose to live in a Traveler and journey together from system to system rather than putting down roots on a planet.
Rather than specializing in carrying passengers or carrying cargo, Saryds seek to make their ships as well-balanced and versatile as possible. As a result, the crew of a typical Visitor can count on performing a different sort of job every week.
The Bombardment Cannon was designed during the original war with the Quarg, in order to give Heliarch civilian ships a way to strike Quarg warships from a safe distance. But now, as with all their weapons, its use is limited to Heliarch warships.
A Bombardment Turret is not one of the most dangerous Heliarch weapons, but it has the advantage that it can hit targets a considerable distance away.
Finisher Torpedoes are one of the Heliarchs' most dreaded weapons. In fact, in one way or another most of their other weapons merely exist to hold a ship in place for long enough for a barrage of Finishers to destroy it.
Baptized with the Saryd word for "furious thunderstorm," this enormous launcher is not meant for prolonged fights nor for use by lighter craft, but for delivering a few quick, devastating bursts of Finisher Torpedoes. It has much greater damage potential than its smaller counterpart.
In order to allow Heliarch ships to install more Finisher Storage Tubes, Heliarch engineers have incorporated a tiny battery pack into each module. This allows for Heliarch ships to have a respectable energy capacity while also carrying a fearsome number of Finishers.
This extremely powerful but also expensive missile is ammunition for the Heliarch Finisher Pod.
When battling the Quarg, the Heliarchs learned that the Quarg would not engage in a battle that their ships might be unable to escape. In response, they focused on building weapons that would keep a ship from being able to come to a stop and activate its jump drive.
This beam turret allows a Heliarch ship to hold its enemies far enough away that they cannot make use of their short-range weapons.
Instead of just placing an Ion Rain Gun on a turret mount, the Heliarch tweaked the cycles of shots, having each shot be significantly more effective and seeing an overall increase to the weapon's range, but at the cost of a reload period.
Heliarch ships primarily serve as a police force. This weapon is designed to neutralize a target's offensive capabilities until more Heliarch ships can join the fray.
Not legally a weapon under Heliarch definitions, the "Mineral Collection and Sorting" extraction unit consists of a set of sharp, durable blades designed to quickly break down minable asteroids. It also comes with an integrated scanning system that looks for asteroids rich in minerals to facilitate the mining efforts.
	Especially popular with novice pilots looking to pay off their ships, the extractor has been a reliable tool of mining businesses in the Coalition for millennia.
Register with the Heliarchs
You have been told to travel to the <planet> to register with the rulers of Coalition space and petition them for permission to do business here.
The Coalition is an alliance of three different alien species living in peace with each other: the Saryds, the Kimek, and the Arachi. On many Coalition worlds, all three species live together in harmony, which is made easier by the fact that each species prefers a very different climate and thus gravitates to different parts of a planet. They are ruled by individuals known as the Heliarchs.
This planet seems to be inhabited by at least three different sentient species. First are giant beetles, about a meter tall, who scurry quickly toward your ship and swarm around it, gawking at you, as soon as you land. The second species, even more disturbing than the beetles, are giant spiders. And the third species are centaurs. Not just something vaguely resembling centaurs; they look like they could have stepped right off the page of a story book from ancient Earth.
	One of the spiders walks up to you, stretching its legs to raise its face and many eyes to the level of your own face, and says something to you in a gloopy sort of burbling language that you don't understand. The beetles, meanwhile, are talking to each other in a different language, all clicks and chittering. And the centaur stands quietly at a distance and keeps glancing back toward the spaceport as if waiting for someone.
	And eventually, someone does arrive: a beetle, a spider, and a centaur all wearing yellow armbands and some sort of electric box hanging on a chain around each of their necks. They walk up to you, and the centaur speaks. After a brief delay, the box around its neck says, "In the name of the Heliarchs, who drove out the oppressors, who maintain peace, we the human visitor greet."
	"How do you know my language?"
	The spider speaks, and the box around its neck translates. "Our nearest and most recent neighbor you are. The Heliarchs in their great wisdom, all things that come to pass in our region of space, they are aware of."
	Speaking through its own translation box, the beetle says, "To the seat of the Heliarch government must you go. Once to the Heliarchs you have become known, in many ways to our society, contribute you may."
	The centaur pulls out a map printed on a thin sheet of plastic. You recognize it as a star map of this region. Lines mark out three different territories, and where they meet are three star systems colored yellow. The centaur points to the southernmost of the three. "Where you must go, here it is," it says.
	"Thank you. I will go there."
	"Can you tell me more about yourselves, first?"
	The spider says, "The wise Heliarchs, all your questions they will answer."
	Eventually the crowd disperses and allows you to visit the spaceport, although no one offers you any jobs or the opportunity to buy anything but basic commodities. Perhaps you need to register with the "Heliarchs" first.
The Heliarchs are the rulers of Coalition space: apparently not elected, but instead selected by merit from among the citizens of the Coalition in such a way as to ensure that all three species are equally represented. Thousands of years ago, the Heliarchs led their three species to band together and drive the Quarg out of Coalition space. The Heliarch centers of government are the three Quarg ringworlds that they captured in that war. They are the only ones in Coalition space who are allowed to have weapons on their starships, and they act as a sort of police force, maintaining peace between the Coalition species.
Your first view of the landing area confirms beyond a doubt that this is a Quarg ringworld, not just an imitation of one. The interior architecture is unmistakable. But no Quarg are present here, only the three species of the Coalition. Soon after you land, a delegation approaches your ship: again, one of each species, but these are wearing golden circlets around their heads. The circlets are not merely decorative, but seem to contain some electronics as well.
	Again, the centaur speaks first. "To our territory, to welcome you we are glad," it says.
	The beetle says, "With our people you may mingle. The beauty of our culture, you may experience."
	The spider adds, "Our people and yours perhaps one day may trade. Perhaps one day the humans our great and free Coalition may join."
	"Tell me more about your Coalition."
	"Is this a Quarg ringworld? Where are the Quarg?"
	The centaur says, "Like you, our three species once, by the Quarg were ruled. But with each other, connections we made. An alliance we formed, and the oppressors we drove away. For six thousand Earth years now, in prosperity and freedom from Quarg constraint and in friendship with each other we have lived."
	"The Quarg don't seem that oppressive to me."
	"How did you defeat the Quarg?"
	The spider says, "Alone, no species all skills or all knowledge possesses. But when our abilities we combine, powerful we may become. That, the reason is, that the Quarg all species in isolation keep."
	The spider says, "In separate boxes, they each species keep. And in subtle ways, your development and discoveries they limit. And on your technology, restrictions they place."
	The beetle says, "Or, wrong are we? And the jump drive that brought you here, a gift from the Quarg it is? They its secret no longer hoard?" You tell it that the Quarg do indeed refuse to give jump drives to humans, and it says, "Then, prisoners indeed you are."
	"I suppose you may be right about the Quarg."
	"Perhaps the Quarg will change their minds in the future."
	The giant beetle considers you gravely. "Hope, we can only," it says.
	"But, the Quarg do let the humans and the Hai make contact with each other."
	This, apparently, is news to them. You explain to them who the Hai are, and that some humans have made contact with them and are living in their territory. "A second Coalition you are forming!" says the centaur, tapping its hooves on the floor in excitement. "Once again, foiled the Quarg are. A secret way for species to work together, they have overlooked. Great things, from this may come."
	You talk with them for a while longer, and learn that the centaurs are called "Saryds," and are the oldest of the three species. The beetles are the "Kimek," and come next, and the spiders are called "Arachi," and were the last of the three to discover spaceflight.
	They tell you that the best way to learn more about them is to visit their worlds, and to see for yourself how the three species live in friendship and equality. They also offer to give you jobs to do in their territory, so that you may become a "valuable contributor" to their society.
Return to the <planet>
Return to the <planet> to see if the Heliarchs will grant you a higher status in the Coalition now that you have been working among them for some time.
A Heliarch agent contacts you soon after you land, and says, "In many useful ways, among us you have been working. The Heliarchs you should petition, and your rights and status among us they may elevate." The agent instructs you to return to the <planet> and petition the Heliarch rulers there.
Saryds are an alien species who look suspiciously similar to the centaurs found in early human mythology. They prefer to live on worlds with as much green space as possible, and even their major cities are full of parks and gardens. Most Saryds live in small communes with up to a few dozen of them per house.
The Kimek are large insectoid aliens, and are members of the Coalition. They discovered spaceflight after the Saryds, but before the Arachi. They are intensely social creatures, preferring to live together in massive buildings with thousands of inhabitants, and many of their worlds have populations in the tens of billions, far more than any human world.
The spider-like Arachi were the last of the three Coalition species to discover interstellar travel. Most members of their society owe allegiance to one of the great Arach "Houses," organizations that are somewhat similar to guilds and that each specialize in one particular form of industry or technology.
Once again, when you exit your ship you are met by a member of each of the three Coalition species, wearing the golden circlets that mark them as Heliarchs. "Told we have been," says the Saryd, "that among us with great diligence and commitment, small tasks you have performed."
	The Kimek says, "Those who in our society's prosperity have invested, with our society's technology may be trusted."
	Apparently nothing is for sale here, but they assure you that many Coalition worlds will now grant you access to their shipyards and outfitters.
Foreign Aid
The Heliarchs have noticed that you've lost your jump drive, being now stranded in Coalition space, and have offered to help. Head to the <destination> to speak with them.
You're approached by a Heliarch delegation shortly after you leave your ship.
	"Cautiously observed during the past few weeks, scans of your ship have been, Captain <last>," the Saryd begins.
	"Unlike previous scans, a jump drive in your ship, our scanners found not," the Kimek continues.
	"Though appreciate the work you here perform, we do, for you to be cut-off from the galaxy, we wish not," the Arach says. "Discussed much, our consuls have, and to help you, they decided. To the <destination> you must go, there discussed, the terms will be."
	"By that you mean you'll get me another jump drive? That's pretty generous of you."
	"What? I lost my jump drive? You've gotta be kidding!"
	"Generous we are indeed. Lucky you are, that under our jurisdiction this happened. Were it the Quarg's, stranded you would remain," the Saryd responds.
	"A good thing that a watchful eye we keep, if noticed you had not," the Kimek says. "But even still, more careful with your outfits you should be."
	You thank them for bringing you this information, and go back to your ship to prepare a route to the <destination>.
Jump Drive Loan
The Heliarchs have provided you a jump drive to leave Coalition space. Bring another jump drive to the <destination> by <date>, to replace the one you borrowed, or they will be extremely angered by you breaking their trust.
The Heliarchs are waiting for you when you land. You see no civilians as you look around, but there are enough armed guards to man several of their Punishers. Said Punishers are all parked near your own ship.
	The Saryd starts speaking, "As to be trusted, you have been deemed, provide you with a jump drive, so that stranded you are not, we will."
	"Mind you, not a gift this is, but a loan, Captain," the Kimek continues. "Another one to replace this one, you must bring us, so that losing a copy of such valuable equipment, we are not."
	"By <date>, brought here the replacement jump drive must be. If any longer you take, assume that betrayed our trust you have, we will, and an enemy, considered you will be," the Arach finishes explaining. "Agree with those terms, do you, Captain?"
	"Yes, I promise I'll return with a second jump drive."
	"Sorry, I need more time to think on this."
	Their engineers proceed to install the jump drive in your ship. A couple of the guards come a bit closer during the process. When it's all done, you're reminded that you need to bring another jump drive here by <date>.
After you once again land near several of their warships and armed guards, the Heliarchs take the jump drive you brought them. They thank you for keeping true to your word, and ask that you avoid losing such an important outfit again.
More Yottrite
You were offered great payment for bringing three more samples of the rare mineral yottrite to <destination>.
Some Coalition citizens, most of which are Arachi, start surrounding your ship after you land, talking among themselves while also glancing at a Heliarch Neutralizer that followed you as you prepared to land on <origin>. The Heliarch agents step off their ship and speak with an Arach of the civilian group. They head back inside their ship after a while and hail you: it seems they've noticed you're carrying samples of the exotic yottrite, and would like to know if you're willing to sell it to them.
	When you approach them, the Arach explains that he is one of the people that oversee the mining operations on <planet> and that he would like to bring the yottrite there so that they can attempt to study it with their most advanced equipment.
	"Few entries on yottrite, my predecessors managed to catalog," he says. "Naturally occur in our territory, it does not. Few opportunities to study it, we've had."
	After discussing with his colleagues for a bit, he announces that he is willing to pay you 350,000 credits for the mineral sample.
	"Sounds like a fair deal to me. Sold."
	"Sorry, but I think I'll hold on to it. It was very hard to get it in the first place."
	He thanks you and transfers the yottrite from your ship to his own, an Arach Spindle, with the help of some spaceport workers. Right before departing he hands you the credits and says that you should bring a few more samples to <destination>. "Three more, you should bring, if interested you are."
Even More Yottrite
You were once again asked to bring seven samples of the rare mineral yottrite to <destination>.
As you land on <origin>, you're contacted by the Arach you sold some yottrite to. He asks if you have any more samples to sell him.
	"Not right now, sorry."
	"I have some, yeah. Where should I bring them to?"
	He tells you to land as usual. Once your ship is brought to the underground area, some workers help unload the yottrite, and ask you to follow them into a restricted section of the complex to get your payment. The guards at the entrance watch closely as your group passes by.
	You walk along extremely wide industrial catwalks overlooking endless smelters and forges of various sizes. Though the heat of the place may be influencing your perception, you're almost certain the largest smelters must be around the size of a light warship.
	After walking for too long in the uncomfortably hot and stuffy interiors of the underground compound, you and the several tons of yottrite are finally brought to a large area similar to a warehouse. Several workers are operating machinery and making sure ore pieces are brought to specific conveyor belts.
	As the workers leave you to bring the yottrite to a separate section of the facility, you're greeted by the Arach who contacted you. "In your debt, we are, Captain <last>," he says, handing you 1,050,000 credits. "Much will be achieved, if significant progress with the samples we make."
	"What sort of progress?"
	"What are you hoping to achieve?"
	"Non-standard thermodynamic properties, yottrite has. Absorb heat around them, the crystals do. Difficult to mix it into a compound, it is," he explains. "If how to overcome this obstacle, we learn, many applications, the element could have."
	"Run several tests on the Quarg equipment, for centuries, our Coalition has. React similarly to yottrite, some of their equipment does. A material involved in the making of their outfits, it is," he explains. "If how to do such a thing ourselves, we learn, maybe replicate their technology, or resume construction of the ringworlds, we could."
	A worker by the yottrite crates shouts something, and the Arach signals he will be heading there shortly.
	"Once again, if any more yottrite, you acquire, bring it here, you may," he says before leaving. "Tirelessly researching it, we are. If in a larger batch, you could bring them, progress quicker, we might."
	He says that about seven samples of the mineral should do for next time and finally leaves. Some workers come shortly after to escort you back to your ship through the maze of smelters.
Neighbor's Mailbox
Deliver the <cargo> to the sister world of <origin>, <destination>.
Once again, you arrive at <origin> with a supply of yottrite and are contacted by the Arachi here. They ask if you're ready to sell what samples you've brought them.
	"Maybe some other time."
	"Sure am. Have some people wait by the docking area to help me unload the samples."
	As the workers get the ore samples out of your ship, you realize that this time the Arach that asked for your help wasn't the one to contact you, nor was he waiting for you on the ground.
	The workers say they will bring the yottrite to the warehouse on their own, and you're told to wait. When they return, they're accompanied by other workers with different crates. They hand you 2,450,000 credits, and ask for permission to load the crates onto your ship.
	"Roughly 5 tons, they weigh. To <destination>, this planet's neighboring world, you must bring them. Requested it so, the overseer has," they say.
	"What's in the crates?"
	"That's gotta be the shortest courier mission I've ever heard of. Can't some other ship do the trip?"
	"Older samples that you've brought to us, they contain. Experimented with, the yottrite was. Unsure of the details, I am."
	"For you to carry them, the overseer asked. Why you in particular, unsure I am."
	You figure that since it's so little cargo and to a planet in this very system, there's no harm in delivering the crates. They place them in your ship.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the yottrite samples hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Though on <origin> you weren't greeted by him, the same Arach from the other trips now contacts you as you prepare to land on <planet>.
	"Captain <last>! Forgive me for my absence in our latest deal, you must. Sort out some business here, I had to," he says.
	He directs you to land on a separate area of the planet, and halfway there little by little a Heliarch fleet starts tailing your ship. You spend a few minutes hovering over the area until they finally give you permission to land. Some of the ships land along with you while others remain in flight, as you come to a massive warehouse complex on a large valley. The facility is walled with some odd kind of barbed wire on top of the walls and fences, and several armed Heliarch agents are patrolling the area.
	As you leave your ship, the Arach is waiting for you alongside some Heliarch officers. They have the cargo removed from your ship without saying much.
	Right before the Heliarch ships prepare to escort you back to the standard docking area, he says, "In the spaceport, meet you I will."
Yottrite Research
Lugglop, one of the Arachi that oversees the mining operations in Bloptab, asked that you pick up some friends of his on <destination> so that they may help with the yottrite research.
You wait around the spaceport for some minutes before finally spotting the Arach. He invites you to his office.
	"Responsible for overseeing deliveries of such exotic materials to the warehouses here, I also am. For the inconvenience and bureaucracy, I apologize," he says. "Forget to properly introduce myself, I often do. Lugglop, I am called."
	"Nice to meet you, I suppose."
	"Do you need more samples? Is that why you called me here?"
	"Harder to keep track of them, it becomes, the more samples there are," he says. "Notified by the Heliarchs, I was. No more samples, for now, I can request. Risk letting them be stolen, they cannot." He then shows you a map of the Coalition, pointing to a system in Saryd space. "Use more delicate procedures and research, to study the samples we must. For that, friends of mine on <destination>, will be waiting," he says. "Bring them here, would you, Captain?"
	"Of course, they'll be here soon."
	"Sorry, I'm not one to take passenger jobs."
When you land on <planet>, Lugglop contacts you and informs you that he has already told his friends about you. He says they will be waiting in the spaceport.
Saryd Specialists
Transport the twins Nasilor and Alituri to <destination>, where they will assist in the yottrite research.
A Saryd wearing their version of a lab coat is waiting for you when you enter the spaceport.
	"Working with Lugglop, you are?" He asks, and you nod. "Nasilor, my name is. Packing up our belongings, my sister is. Bring you to our laboratory, I shall."
	You follow him deep into the underground spaceport to the "residential" section, which, to you, is indistinguishable from a research compound. The endless doors to your left and right occasionally give space for large glass panels, giving you a nice view of the massive crystal formations here.
	Nasilor stops by a door immediately after one of these "viewing sites" and opens it. He introduces you to his sister, Alituri, and you two start helping her pack what remains. Most of what they're bringing are several research papers, though you can't figure out what's written on them.
	Finally, you start heading back to your ship. Noticing your interest in the beauty of the gypsum caves, the two Saryd researchers slow down their pace and start to tell you more about themselves. They are twins, both born on Saros, but have been working here for decades. Though you don't understand much of the technical jargon, you figure out that Nasilor specializes in cryptocrystalline compounds, while Alituri focuses her studies on planetary and cosmic conditions that lead to the formation of the gypsum caves here.
	With the little "tour" over, when you three reach your ship, you show them to their bunks and prepare to head back to <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the Saryd twins hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Master Shipwright
Head to <destination> to pick up a member of House Mallob so that they may help in trying to apply yottrite to an alloy.
Lugglop is waiting for you when you land and greets the two researchers as you help them get their things out of the ship.
	He points them to a hotel where he had a room prepared for them, and asks you to follow him to his office again.
	"Filled to the brim with cutting edge equipment, our facilities here and on the neighbor planet are. Alas, venture much into the theoretical field needed to study such rare elements, our personnel here does not."
	He shows you to his map again, this time pointing to a nearby Arach world. "Once cracked some aspects of yottrite, the twins have, an expert in ship making, we will need," he says. "On <destination>, prepared one of their representatives, House Mallob has. Bring them here, you must."
	You're about to head back to your ship when he hands you 200,000 credits. "Nearly forgot to pay you for this last service, I did."
Bring Pichiie to <destination>, where she will join Lugglop's team in their yottrite research.
You're immediately hailed by House Mallob when your ship is entering the atmosphere of <origin>. They guide you through the planet, bringing you to what looks like a massive, castle-like structure, which appears to be made out of a similar material to that of Arach ships, sitting at the base of a mountain.
	You land on a large docking area, where some other ships are also conducting business. Stepping off of your ship you're greeted by what is unmistakably an outfitter, and as you look around you spot some other large buildings dotting the surrounding area, with members of the Coalition going to and from them. The atmosphere feels like that of a small village turned into an outdoor shopping mall.
	Shortly after landing you're greeted by an Arach wearing what you judge to be some sort of uniform. He takes a translation device out of his pocket and formally greets you. "Honored to have you as a guest, the great House Mallob is, Captain <first> <last>."
	"Are you the shipwright I'll be taking to Lugglop?"
	"What's with this place? Why are there so many buildings all over?"
	"Mountains, no! But a servant of House Mallob, I am. Mostly as a chauffeur, I work."
	"No mere mansion, the private property of House Mallob is," he says as he starts pointing to different areas. "A museum, there we have, detailing the history of Arach ships. To the left, a marketplace is. To the right, House Mallob's private university is, where study the advanced methods of ship making, honor students from all over the Coalition do."
	He then asks that you follow him, saying, "Assist Lugglop in his research, my mistress will. Meet her in the mansion, you must." You follow him along the path, and he gives a bit more detail on some of the buildings as you walk near them. What really piques your interest though is that one of the buildings, which he seemed to willingly ignore, had armed guards at the door, with no indication of being members of the Heliarch.
	Reaching the entrance of the mansion, it isn't as castle-like as the walls, but it all still looks strangely pompous. Up close it almost looks like all the several parts and pods of an Arach Hulk or two were crumpled together into one single building.
	He guides you through the mansion. You pass by several other servants, notice rooms where he mentions that members of House Mallob are having meetings, and even meet a group of Saryd and Kimek students who came here to study with the shipwrights of House Mallob.
	Finally, he brings you to a room on the third floor, claiming that your passenger is waiting inside. You enter, only to see a Kimek glancing out the window.
	"I take it that's the shipwright?"
	"So, is my passenger crawling around somewhere? In some corner hidden in a web?"
	"A Kimek? I thought this was an Arach House."
	The butler ignores what you said and introduces you to the Kimek in question. "Marry into House Mallob at a young age, miss Pichiie did. A former student at the university here, she was."
	"Correct you are, Captain," he says. "Proud to introduce you to miss Pichiie, I am. A former student at the university here, she was, before marry into House Mallob, she did."
	Finally, the reason why you had to come all the way to this part of <origin> becomes clear; Pichiie mentions she would like to hear your stories about where you got the yottrite in the first place before boarding your ship to head to <planet>. You tell her all samples you've come across were found in systems where the star had gone supernova. It's a short explanation, but she appears to be satisfied, and after saying her goodbyes to other members of the House, you're both brought to your ship.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Pichiie hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
As with the Saryd twins, Lugglop greets Pichiie and tells her of a hotel he prepared for her time here.
	"Ready, my team is now, Captain," he says, after Pichiie leaves with her luggage. "Enrich and research samples as needed, for the next few months we will. Contact you again, I will, should the need for your services arise once again."
	He hands you <payment>, and walks away.
One Last Sample
Acquire one sample of yottrite and deliver it to <destination> so that Lugglop has some for his presentation to the Coalition's scientific community.
When you land, you receive a message from Lugglop, the Arach to whom you brought several yottrite samples.
	"Captain, some major findings, we have. Preparing a presentation about our research, to present in Ring of Wisdom, we are," he says. "Only, run out of pure samples, we have. Bring us one once more, would you? Willing to pay slightly more for the inconvenience, we are. <payment>."
	"Okay, I'll bring you a piece of yottrite once again."
	"Sorry, but I'm not mining that any more."
	He thanks you and says he and the rest of the team will be waiting in <destination>. "Moved here about halfway through the project, we did, to make use of the station's facilities."
Lugglop pays you <payment> as you deliver the yottrite, accompanied by a Heliarch agent. "Finish preparing our presentation, we now must. If to help us further you wish, in the spaceport meet us you must."
Yottrite Presentation
Transport Lugglop and his team, alongside <cargo>, to the <destination>, where they will share with the Coalition's scientific community their findings on yottrite.
You meet Lugglop in the spaceport and follow him to meet with Nasilor, Alituri, and Pichiie, who are overseeing some workers place a few sealed metal crates inside a container and the yottrite sample you just brought here into another. They detail how they have prepared all the material they needed and now just need a transport to the <destination>.
	"If with us, you come, Captain, perhaps a better detailed description of the systems where the yottrite was found, you could provide," Nasilor says.
	"<payment>, I would pay you," Lugglop says.
	"Of course I'll take you there. Have the containers loaded into my ship."
	"What discoveries have you made about it?"
	"To share our findings with you, allowed we are not," Pichiie says.
	"Forgive us you must, Captain, but told to keep everything a secret, we were," Lugglop continues. "Perhaps after our presentation, public our findings could be made."
	They all follow you to your ship after the containers are ready to be loaded.
	After they are put into your cargo, Nasilor, Alituri and Pichiie head to their bunks, but as Lugglop is coming on board, you see that two Heliarch agents, both Kimek, are accompanying him. "Here to ensure the secrecy of our discoveries, they are," he says. Seeing as they are only two more passengers, you agree to carry them to <planet>, and they all board your ship.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Lugglop's team and their presentation materials hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Immediately when you land, Lugglop gives you your payment of <payment>. You and the four researchers then follow some Heliarch agents that were waiting for you at the docks. You five are brought to an area akin to a theater with some type of podium on the stage. The seats are all taken by Heliarch agents.
	Lugglop's team apparently will wait until the contents of the two containers are brought here, so you're asked to describe the systems with supernovae where you encountered yottrite asteroids. This only lasts a few minutes, as the audience doesn't seem too keen on inquiring about details, though one particular Saryd did puzzle you when they asked about the state of the supernovas you visited. You tell them you don't know what they mean, and they press the topic no further.
	After you finish, and right as the materials for Lugglop's presentation arrive, you're escorted back to your ship by some agents. Several hours later, you're contacted by Lugglop, who says the presentation is finished, and his group is coming back to your ship. When they arrive, they each thank you for providing the means to perform their experiments. "Officially commended for our efforts, we were!" he says.
	"Though allowed to publicly share our findings, we are not still, invited to be part of the team here that will continue the research, we were," Pichiie adds. The Saryd twins say they will reside here for as long as the project continues, while Pichiie comments on how she'll often be taking trips to visit her family in House Mallob's property.
	"As for me, a job as overseer, I still have to perform," Lugglop says. "Stay here for a few days I will, but even with all the advanced equipment of this ring, still our Coalition's most capable, the smelters of Bloptab's Furnace are. In their optimal state they must be, if to deepen our knowledge on yottrite, we are. Return there shortly, I will."
	They thank you again for all your help and wish you safe travels as you continue exploring.
Transport Chikee
Chikee, a young Kimek, is studying to become a Heliarch. Transport him to <destination>, where he was offered a job, so that he can make a living while studying on his own.
At any given time there are thousands of Kimek here in the spaceport, either mingling among themselves during a break from work or negotiating travel prices with starship captains. You imagine that if you weren't a human and clearly stood out, you too would be constantly getting offers to travel to another world, as many civilian captains here wish to fill a last bunk or two they have vacant on their ship before departing.
	You manage to find a restaurant here where you spot some food you've already learned you can eat, so you take a seat and order something.
	You're halfway through your meal when you notice the waiter who brought it to you still hasn't moved away from the table.
	"Sorry, should I have paid first before eating?"
	The Kimek doesn't have a translation box, so your words don't reach him. While he insists on remaining by the table, you also notice he has been constantly glancing at the entrance, as if waiting for someone to come in.
	When a Heliarch agent passes by the entrance, the Kimek says something in his language, heading to meet the Heliarch, and speaking with them briefly. The Heliarch agent then accompanies the Kimek waiter to your table.
	"Does he need something?"
	"Did I do something wrong?"
	"Wish to speak to you, this Kimek does, Captain," the agent says, as they continue listening to what the Kimek is telling them, and makes an effort to translate their message to you. "Called Chikee, he is. A student, aspiring to join the ranks of the Heliarchs. Looking for transportation to <destination>, he is, so that a better job there he may acquire."
	"Sure, I'll take him there."
	"How much will he pay me?"
	"I'm not headed that way, sorry."
	The Heliarch asks the young Kimek about payment, to which he takes a pause before responding, and when he does so he speaks a lot slower than before.
	"Not enough funds to pay you for the trip, he has," the agent says. "However, to pay you once well established he is, he promises."
	"Okay then, I'll take him there."
	"I prefer not having to wait to get paid, sorry."
	You're told to wait for Chikee before departing the planet, and the Heliarch agent leaves. You leave the restaurant yourself shortly after, and head to your ship.
	The Kimek is a bit surprised by you having a translation box, but seems to be put at ease knowing that he can speak with you directly now.
	"Chikee, my name is, Captain. A student. Looking for transportation to <destination>, I am," he blabs, scrambling to show you what you assume is some kind of letter. "A job in the mines there, I was offered. Better payment than this one, it has."
	"Sure, I'll take you there."
	He pauses for a bit, and you see his mandibles clicking together time and again.
	"Lacking proper funds, I currently am," he says, speaking much slower than before. "Once paid by this new job I am, however, pay you I will. I promise."
	"Ok, I'll take you there."
	I prefer not having to wait to get paid, sorry.
	He thanks you and says to wait for him by your ship before you depart. You leave the restaurant shortly after, and head to your ship.
	Night falls, but there hasn't been any decrease to the activities here, as the hordes of captains and workers still populate the docking area and the spaceport.
	Around midnight, Chikee arrives at your ship, and you show him to his bunk. He is only bringing a single, old rugged bag with him.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Chikee hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You drop Chikee off on <planet>, and wish him good luck on the new job.
Chikee, a young Kimek, is studying to become a Heliarch. Transport him to <destination>, where he was offered an internship and hopes to be awarded with a recommendation letter.
While strolling through the spaceport, you're flagged down by a familiar face. It's Chikee, the Kimek student whom you brought here months ago.
	He excitedly greets you and talks about how well his studies have been going. You notice that he now has a translation device of his own, positioned by his neck.
	"Purchased it recently, I did, so that hindered by language barriers, I am not," he says. "Excellent timing you have, Captain. Looking for transportation, once again I am."
	He tells you how his academic successes have earned him an internship in one of the laboratories on <destination>, and that he needs someone to transport him there by <date> so that he may begin working right away.
	"Better, the payment is, but also hoping for a recommendation letter, I am," he says, explaining that such letters from a Heliarch laboratory could help him significantly in joining their ranks.
	"Sounds like you've worked pretty hard for this. Let's go to my ship, I'll take you there."
	"You still haven't paid me for last time, though."
	He freezes up for a bit, not responding.
	"Just enough money to rent an apartment there, I have. Save up until the laboratory pays me, I must," he says. "Scamming you, I am not, Captain. Thankful I am, and pay you handsomely, I will."
	"Alright, I'll wait again. Let's go to my ship."
	"Sorry, but I'm not one to be fooled twice."
	He thanks you, and this time follows you right away, as he already has his bags prepared.
	"Hoping to join the research teams on Ring of Wisdom, I am," he says as you two walk to your ship, explaining the reason he needs to study so much is because he is aiming to work for the scientific branch of the government, instead of the more military-focused side.
	You lead him to his bunk and prepare for the trip.
It seems the laboratory Chikee will work in is quite far away from the docking area, so after bidding you farewell, he decides to walk there immediately to get acquainted with his new bosses as soon as possible.
	As he starts crossing one of the bridges linking the canyon walls here, he visibly struggles against the strong winds, as his bags seem to weigh him down.
	(Help him with his bags.)
	(Let him go on his own.)
	You catch up to him without too much trouble, though you too are also somewhat troubled by the winds here. You pick up one of his bags, and he becomes much more comfortable with facing the constant blasts of air, though he still walks slower than the expected from a Kimek.
	The two of you walk for about twenty minutes before finally reaching the laboratory. It is shielded by several large thick walls of stone slabs, much like many buildings in this unorthodox city.
	You wish Chikee the best of luck and head back to your ship.
Chikee, a young Kimek, is studying to become a Heliarch. Transport him to <destination>, where he will work with some members of House Idriss to further his research project.
As you land on <origin>, you notice that 170,000 credits have been transferred to your account, along with a message.
	It's from Chikee, the Kimek student whom you brought here. He asks that you meet him in an area here more well protected from the winds, so you head there.
	Upon meeting him, he says in a jolly tone, "Kept my promise, I did, Captain. Paid you, I have."
	His internship here apparently went really well, and he got the recommendation letter he wanted and is once again looking for transportation.
	"Passing by a month ago, some members of House Idriss were. The Arach House that deals with the construction of hardware, they are," he says. "Interested by my work, they were. Offered a partnership on <destination>, they have."
	"I thought you wanted to become a Heliarch. How exactly will all of this help you?"
	"Hold on, what sort of 'work' were they interested by? What have you been working on?"
	"If well known among the scientific community, I become, more merit, my curriculum will have," he says. "Make it easier to pass the trials, all the knowledge and experience I've gathered until now will as well."
	"Larger than most, the Kimek population is. Struggle to properly distribute medication or other chemicals, even worlds richer than my homeworld do," he says. "Seeking to create an independent network to provide better distribution, I am."
	He jokes about how it's silly that although his species has such incredible advancements in their alimentary transport network, it's still difficult for most of the population to find medicine for what is translated as "the common cold" by the device. He claims that, were he on the Heliarch council, he could directly propose changes and solutions to such problems.
	He tells you a bit more about his work here, how it was working with Saryds, and the cultural exchange. Though he seems to have garnered some fond memories of his time here, you notice while heading for your ship that he still hasn't gotten used to the wind.
	You show him to his bunk and prepare for the journey to <destination>.
Chikee hands you 130,000 credits when you land. "As always, for transporting me, grateful I am, Captain," he says, as he heads off to meet with the members of House Idriss.
Chikee, the young Kimek whom you've transported many times, has finally become a candidate for elevation to the rank of Heliarch. Bring him to the <destination> by <date>.
You're contacted by Chikee when you land.
	"Captain <last>! Good news and another job for you, I have," he says, asking that you meet him in the spaceport.
	You head there, and he's already with his bags, prepared to board your ship. "Helped me a lot, House Idriss has. An audience with the Heliarch, on the <destination> I have!"
	He tells you that he needs to be there by <date>, and wastes no time as he heads into your ship.
Chikee hands you <payment> before leaving your ship. Heliarch agents are waiting for him, and receive him in a bit of a ceremony.
	You spend a few hours browsing some shops here and have some food once you find an establishment that serves something appetizing to humans.
	Ringworlds have no day or night, but looking at your ship's internal clock, it is almost night time when Chikee returns to your ship in a hurry.
	"Accepted I was! Grant me the rank, they did!" he says, showing you a Heliarch circlet as he puts it on his head. "Infinitely grateful for your help in all of this I am, Captain."
	You congratulate him on the achievement, and he starts to tell you how what he calls the "trial" went. Aside from explaining his work on places that got him a recommendation letter, he was told to do a presentation on his own work to some type of jury and pass an interview. "Wait in a line with other candidates, I had to. To be selected, only a few were. So nervous, I was," he says. After thanking you again and trying to shake hands with you, he leaves your ship one last time, and you wish him the best of luck in his new line of work.
Transport Doctors
Bring these <bunks> doctors, along with <cargo> to <destination> by <date>, where they will work to address a major viral outbreak
As you enter the spaceport, you notice several battalions of Coalition doctors roaming about, talking with merchant captains and then following some of them back to their ships.
	One such crowd approaches you, and a Saryd among them says, "Broken out on <destination>, a deadly virus has. Captains willing to transport us and <cargo>, we seek." She shows you to the group of doctors, <bunks> of them.
	"I'd be glad to help with something serious like that. Let's go to my ship."
	"I can't afford to fill so many bunks right now, sorry."
	The doctors rush inside your ship, and spaceport workers quickly place the <cargo> in your cargo hold.
	When you get the chance, you ask them what exactly the virus is, and they explain as best as they can how it causes "tumorous-like behavior on Kimek exoskeletons, rapidly degenerating the tissue and exposing the flesh, all the while increasing the risk of infection." They say that although it is most dangerous to Kimek, there are confirmed cases of some Arachi having contracted the disease.
	It seems pretty serious, so you should make sure these doctors and their supplies are brought to <destination> as quickly as possible.
You've reached <planet>, but the doctors and the medical supplies haven't arrived yet. Depart and wait for the ships carrying them.
The medical workers exit your ship just as quickly as they entered it and head off to different sections of the city, directed by some emergency workers. After the <cargo> are also taken off your ship, a worker hands you <payment> and says you could look for more ways to help with the outbreak by looking for their colleagues in the spaceport.
Collect Vaccines
Head to <stopovers>, where Saryd researchers have been working on a vaccine for the new virus, and deliver it to <destination> by <date>.
As before, the spaceport is completely dominated by doctors and nurses. You don't find the person who told you to come here, but as you ask one of the other emergency workers, they direct you to a makeshift office set up next to a few trading panels.
	"Fairly new to us, this virus is," the Kimek manning the stand says. "But finally developed an initial batch of vaccines for it, the researchers on Secret Sky thankfully have."
	"What do you mean 'finally?' Didn't this virus just break out recently?"
	"You want me to go there retrieve the vaccines?"
	He looks puzzled by your question.
	"That some weeks have already passed, true it is, but hard at work, the researchers have been," he says. "Blame them for taking a few days more than usual, we cannot. Intricate, this virus is."
	He shows you a detailed map of Kimek space, explaining that most of the confirmed and suspected cases have been there. Given that the Kimek population is more than double that of the Arachi and the Saryds combined, it's not surprising.
	"To <destination>, this initial batch must be brought. From there, distributing more batches of the vaccines to other worlds, you will be tasked with."
	As the line of volunteering merchant captains continues to grow behind you, he is swift to inform you that payment will be <payment>, and asks that the next person come forward.
A group of Saryd workers is waiting for you, and they load the <cargo> onto your ship. A laboratory worker babbles about how you must care for them.
You've reached <planet>, but the vaccines aren't here yet. Once you've picked them up, make sure all ships that are carrying them arrive in this system.
An incessant stream of freighters has the landing pads of the spaceport here overcrowded, and from the looks of it you were only given a quick clearance due to carrying the vaccines.
	The people here, who are surprisingly managing to keep the place organized despite the overwhelming traffic, pay you <payment> as they unload the vaccines from your cargo hold.
	"Waiting in the spaceport with more tasks for you, our colleagues will be, Captain <last>," one says before running off to tend to other ships carrying doctors or supplies.
Distribute Vaccines
Accompanied by the three volunteer ships, head to the designated Kimek worlds, delivering vaccines to deal with the current viral outbreak, then return to <destination> by <date>.
This time you're expected and are brought to a large conference room where many Saryds, and the occasional Arach, are waiting. A Kimek that is part of the team organizing the containment procedures comes in and says you will once again be transporting vaccines.
	"In a few hours, fully replicated, the vaccine samples will be. Load them onto your ships, we will. Deliver them to <stopovers>, you must."
	Everyone is then separated into groups. You're put with two Saryd captains and an Arach who is wearing some protective suit of sorts that covers his entire body, making it somewhat difficult for him to walk.
	The captains agree to follow your lead and deliver the vaccines along with you, so you all head back to your ships.
You and the Coalition captains have delivered the final batch of vaccines. You must now return to <origin>.
You have reached <planet>, but you're missing something! Either you haven't visited <stopovers>, or you left the Coalition ships behind.
You and the other captains are told to wait in one of several lines formed here. Your group chats with some others while you wait, and a few mention how their batch of vaccines was delivered to Arach and Saryd space. Apparently many tourists had contracted the disease before flying to those areas.
	The line moves quickly, and once it's your turn, you're paid <payment>, and then swiftly shoved along by the workers who are already paying the person who was behind you.
	Looking back at the line, and seeing the sheer number of captains waiting for their share, it's no wonder the Kimek that paid you were extremely brief. As you come back to your ship, you see that a message was sent to you by the Coalition government. More specifically, it appears to have been sent by their Department of Health.
	"To all captains who helped in dealing with the recent viral outbreak, you have our gratitude and may rest tonight knowing you've contributed to the continued prosperity of our Coalition."
Not One Minute Late
A Kimek researcher from <origin> forgot the birthday of her Saryd friend, who lives on <destination>. Since you have a jump drive and can make it there in time, she asked you to deliver the present by <date>.
A Kimek in a lab coat is desperately running around the spaceport here, carrying a small package with some papers attached.
	As soon as she spots you, she quickly approaches you and says, "Human! The visitor I've heard about, you are! From the outside! A jump drive you have, if our space you've reached, yes?"
	You nod, and she continues, "Live on <planet>, a Saryd friend of mine does. Forgotten that his birthday was on <date>, I had! Make it in time for the party, I cannot. Busy with work, I am. At least send his present, I'd like to, but make it in time, regular ships here can't! With your jump drive, get there in a day you could. Help me, would you, Captain?"
	"Just that small package? Easy enough, I'll do it."
	"I'm not headed there, sorry, have another mission to do. Somewhere else."
Apparently this Saryd in question doesn't live here in the spaceport village, so you must take a train to go to his home. Thankfully, a train ticket was attached to the package, so you waste no time and get on the next train there.
	Even for a world without too large a population, the train wagons here feel unusually empty, with only a handful of other passengers on the one you settle in. The trip takes a few hours, so you have plenty of time to look out the window and gaze at the sights of the seemingly infinite winter forest.
	Halfway through, a blizzard makes it tough to see much outside. The ticket inspectors come through again, but now they are serving something akin to hot chocolate, only it is instead a blue, creamy substance.
	Once you arrive at the village, you follow the makeshift map of the streets the Kimek included and deliver the present to her Saryd friend. Apparently the party had just started.
	When you get back to your ship, <payment> are transferred to your account, and you get a short message from the Kimek researcher, thanking you for helping out.
Acquire Arach Rum
Some Saryd students on <origin> have offered to pay you for bringing them a shipment of traditional Arach rum, currently only sold on <destination>. To make it in time, the rum must be bought by <date>.
While walking by some shops, a young Saryd bumps into you as you're turning a corner, knocking you to the ground. He helps you up, apologizing. A couple others that were with him entered a shop without even noticing you, but almost immediately come back out.
	They speak with him, pointing at the shop and to where they must have been before bumping into you, while their friend tinkers with a translation box.
	"No luck?" he asks them, tinkering with a translation box, not realizing you have your own.
	His colleagues shake their heads, "Told the same as in the other store, we were. Shipping here, the Arachi no longer are," they say, pointing to the shop and to where they must have been before bumping into you. Their friend continues messing with the device.
	Once he's done, he asks, "Human, a merchant captain you are, correct? Looking for work, are you?"
	"What kind of work?"
	"Oh no, I live here actually. In the humantown district, right around the corner."
	"Actually I'm just here for the view, sorry."
	They all start laughing, some clearly finding your joke much funnier than you anticipated. Given the way they are stumbling on flat ground and the scent of alcohol that's permeated the air ever since one of them bumped into you, you realize why.
	"Fair enough. Not a common sight here, humans are, Captain," the one with a translation box says. "Asking for such a response, I was."
	They tell you that they are students at Starlit University and will be graduating soon. They intend on throwing a party to celebrate and had the idea of buying some traditional Arach rum for that.
	"Stopped shipping it here, the Arachi have," another Saryd says, pulling on the translation box on his friend's neck and nearly yanking it off. "Happened with many other drinks, this also has."
	They explain that the rum is produced on <destination>, and that you'll probably have an easier time finding it there. Despite you not knowing for sure how many people they intend on inviting to this party, and the fact that you don't know how much a Saryd can drink, you still worry a bit when they say that "two tons should do." They also tell you that to make it in time for the party, the rum should be bought by <date>.
	"Sounds good, I'll go get it and bring it to you."
	"How much would I need to pay for two tons?"
	"Sorry, but I'm against smuggling alcohol to students."
	"One of the pricier drinks, this rum is," the Saryd explains. "Some thousands of credits per ton, you should expect to pay. But well compensated, you will be."
You ask around and are directed to a large refinery on one of the more populated cities here. The rum's price is impressive indeed, 5,642 credits per ton, but what is more impressive is how you worried about the students' irresponsibility when they asked you to buy this when you yourself aren't responsible enough to have a bit over ten thousand credits to spend. Go earn some money, then return here.
Deliver Arach Rum
Now that you've bought the two tons of Arach rum, deliver it to the Saryd students on <destination> by <date>.
You ask around and are directed to a large refinery on one of the more populated cities here. Apparently it's the original building where the Arach rum was first produced.
	You ask for two tons, avoiding giving the exact details of what it's for, as you do not wish to be held accountable for whatever some drunken Saryds may do, and pay the price for all the rum: 11,284 credits.
	The Arachi that take care to load the rum into your ship give you some odd looks, and when it's all done the manager tells you to try and slow down on the drinking.
Besides the students who tasked you with buying the rum, about a dozen others are waiting for your ship when you land and help you unload the beverages.
	"Saved our party you have, Captain," the Saryd with the translation device says, handing you <payment>.
	They head off, excitedly dragging along the cargo carts with the many kegs on top. Some of them have already taken the liberty of opening a keg and begun drinking.
Saryd Census
Transport these <bunks> Saryd census workers to <destination>, where they will collect data on the population growth there.
Over a dozen Saryds walk up to you as you're entering the spaceport. They explain that they are census workers, and are in need of a transport to <destination>. "Left us hanging, our previous transport has."
	"What sort of data are you gathering? Just general information?"
	"Sure, I'll show you to your bunks."
	"You're not in luck then, I'm also not looking for any transport missions now."
	"Collecting data on population growth, we are. Agreed to help our colleagues, many other ships already have," one of them says.
	"Alright, I'll show you to your bunks."
	"Well I'm sure you can find someone else then. I'm not looking for any transport missions now."
	They thank you and start following you to your ship. There are <bunks> of them in total, now that you've had the time to count.
	You ask if this search will stick to Saryd space, and they say that each species usually sticks to their own home territory when gathering this type of data, so you shouldn't worry about having to take them from one end of Coalition space to the other.
	They settle in their bunks, and prepare for the trip.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the census workers hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You're paid <payment> for transporting the Saryds here, and they leave your ship, ready to get to work and ask around. They say that they'll probably all be back in the spaceport by night time, so you should check there later if you want to help them further.
Apparently you got lucky to have transported a group that was assigned to an area close to the spaceport city, as you see many other Coalition captains impatiently waiting for their own passengers to return, some looking at maps of the planet and grumbling.
	Most of the Saryds are here, but three of them still haven't come back, so the 14 that have already arrived just keep discussing the results they've found.
	(Go browse some shops, then come back later.)
	(Ask them about the data they have collected.)
	They explain how this census was mostly focused on the total population growth of the Coalition and how things are going as expected.
	"Remained stable, the Saryd population has," one of them comments. "At about 30 billion individuals, our numbers still are, though slightly increasing the fertility rate has been."
	As you continue to chat, one of them gets curious and asks you about humanity's population, to which you respond that your species numbers about 100 billion people.
	"Double that of the Arachi," one of the workers says.
	"And half that of the Kimek," another one completes.
	They ask you some more questions about human territory, but avoid getting too technical to the point where it's difficult for you to respond.
	You try and entertain yourself by looking at the shops here, but pretty much all of them are just filled with the produce of local farms.
	One of them has a few toys made out of straw. You take a look at the Saryd designs for them. They're nothing particularly special, nor as stereotypical as one might have expected from a species that resembles centaurs. Most of them appear to be replicating creatures of the local fauna or buildings like small houses.
	You notice two other census workers have come back, so you decide to return to the group and wait for the final member. Some Coalition captains from earlier have gathered together in a bar to lament the long wait.
	After the final Saryd arrives, you all head back to your ship, and you're told that the next destination is <destination>.
This time the workers mention how they were tasked with gathering data on a part of the planet other than the surroundings of the spaceport, as they pay you <payment>.
	Thankfully, they mention how the census is nearly over and that this was their final destination, so you won't need to wait for hours in the spaceport like the captains you saw on <origin>.
	They thank you for helping them do their job, and wish you safe travels.
Acquiring Funds
Inturi and Aunaris, a young Saryd couple, need to make enough money to buy their dream home. Transport Aunaris to <destination>, where she was offered a job in the university there.
While walking around the spaceport, you notice one of the Saryd workers that was refueling your ship is quickly galloping somewhere, only without his uniform, as if his shift just ended. He meets up with another Saryd and starts looking at a map with her.
	(Go back to my ship and check if it was properly refueled.)
	They pause their map-gazing and introduce themselves as Inturi and Aunaris, a young couple who are looking to move out of <origin> and build a home they've always dreamed of on another world.
	"Only, in need of money for that we are," Inturi says. "Worked in a ship as a crewmember, I did, before decided to stay here and work on ship repairs and maintenance, I had."
	"Much too far away, his old job took him, and well paid, crew members are not," Aunaris says, bringing up the map again and showing it to you. "Offered a job in Starlit University, on <destination>, I was. Not too distant from <origin>, it is, and a higher pay, it offers. Transport me there, would you, Captain? Once ready our house is, pay you we would."
	"Of course, just come to my ship when you've finished preparing your luggage."
	"Sorry, I'm headed elsewhere now."
	They both thank you, and you head back to your ship.
	By nightfall, Aunaris arrives, accompanied by Inturi and some other Saryds, who you guess must be family members, as they all say their goodbyes. Once she enters your ship, you show her to her bunk, and prepare to leave.
	When you get to your ship, you check the control panel and do a short check-up. The fuel tank has been filled, and everything else is working properly. You leave your ship again, and move on with your business.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Aunaris hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Aunaris thanks you for bringing her here, and apologizes for not being able to pay you right away, but promises once she and Inturi have figured out their home, they will work hard to pay you. "Stay here for a few months, I probably will, before the remaining funds I have acquired," she says before saying goodbye and taking a cable car to her new workplace.
Home Sweet Plot Of Land
The Saryd couple Inturi and Aunaris have finally amassed enough money to buy a plot of land on <destination>, where they will begin building their very own home. Bring both of them there so that they can settle the purchase.
You're met with two familiar faces in the spaceport: the Saryd couple you met some time ago, Inturi and Aunaris, who were working on acquiring the funding needed to build their own home.
	"Worked for a week in another ship, I did, until landed here we had," Inturi says, joking about his way of catching a ride on a ship without paying a transport fee.
	"Sleeping well, I have not been, but helped much with the campus administration, I have. A bonus, I was given," Aunaris tells you.
	They say they just need a transport to <destination>, the world they have chosen to put down roots on, and after everything is done, they will work on getting you your payment.
	"Glad to hear it all worked out. Let's go to my ship, and I'll set a route to <planet>."
	"Sorry, but I'm not going there right now."
	You show them to their bunks, and prepare for the trip.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Aunaris and Inturi hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Reversed House Spider
Take Inturi to <destination>, where he will purchase a small Arach ship that he and Aunaris will repurpose into a home.
The couple leaves your ship and heads to a real estate agency. From what they told you during the trip, they have about two and a half million credits they can spend, which they claim is in line with the standard properties in the most valued (and most sought-after) locations here, and that they should still have enough money to pay you afterwards.
	They return from consulting, the both of them with disappointed looks on their faces. Inturi starts looking at the ships landing and departing while Aunaris comes talk to you.
	"Kept watch of one property, for months we had. On a mountain village, overlooking a lake, and with access to a nearby forest, it is. A few days ago, purchased it was," she sighs. "Available, another plot of land neighboring it is, but over half our funds, the land alone costs."
	Inturi then looks over, as if he had just received a shock, and says, "That's it! A ship! Live in a ship, we could!"
	"I like the enthusiasm, but unfortunately I'm not looking for any more crew members right now."
	"If you say so. Just don't forget the oranges, scurvy probably is a problem for Saryds too."
	"Live in a ship?" Aunaris repeats the sentence, puzzled.
	"In an Arach ship, for that week I worked. Taught me some things, the captain did. Often repurposed into houses, their ships are," he explains. "Their smallest ship, we could buy. Save time and money otherwise spent building a home, it would."
	They talk for a bit in private, and after a few minutes Inturi apparently managed to fully explain his idea and convince her.
	They head back to the real estate agency and arrange the purchase of the plot of land. Inturi then asks that you transport him to <destination>, where the basic Arach ship model is sold, and after buying it he will return here with the new "house."
	Aunaris will remain here to finish sorting out all the paperwork and will be waiting by the property once you two return.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Inturi hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Test Drive, Final Drive
Escort Inturi's ship, which will be repurposed into a home for him and Aunaris, to <destination>.
Inturi heads right to the shipyard, and you help him with the purchase itself. He says that although he has worked in many ships over the years, he never went to the shipyard for more than picking up some parts for repair, or to polish a newly produced model.
	Only when you're with him inside the Arach vessel do you think of asking if he even knows how to fly a ship, but he reassures you that it won't be a problem.
	"To work as a copilot for an old friend, my first job was. Worry about me crashing the ship, you need not," he jokes.
	He says he will wait for your lead and follow you to <destination> once you depart.
You land on <planet>, but realize that Inturi's ship hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to get here.
You help Inturi park the ship on the plot of land, but since the Arach Courier takes up almost the entire area, your own ship has to land on a regular landing pad.
	After taking a transport up the mountain, you see that some workers are already there and are starting to remove ship components that won't be needed, like its engines and hyperdrive. A house doesn't need to be able to traverse the void of space, after all.
	The couple comes to meet up with you. "In a day or two, after some shopping we do, fully furnished the house will be," Aunaris says, looking at the ship.
	"Helped us a lot in getting it all sorted out you have, Captain <last>. Focus on working hard to pay you back in full, we will," Inturi adds.
	"You don't need to worry about paying me, I helped because I wanted to, not for a payday."
	"Well, I hope everything goes well. Best of luck to you two!"
	They look at you confused and then try to insist on paying you, but after some minutes they agree. "Too kind a heart you are, Captain," Aunaris says.
	They thank you again, and you head back to your ship.
When you land, you're notified of <payment> being transferred to your account.
	With it, there's a message. It's from Inturi and Aunaris, the Saryd couple who you helped move out to their very own home.
	In the message, they apologize for taking so long to pay you, and go on to tell you about how they've been doing there. Aunaris has been working in a school there, while Inturi has been helping other residents set up their own "ship-houses," as he calls them. Apparently it's become somewhat popular there after people saw the couple's home.
	They thank you again and say you're welcome to visit anytime.
When you land, you see you've received a message. It's from Inturi and Aunaris, the Saryd couple who you helped move out to their very own home.
	Along with the message, they've sent a picture of them both tending to some flowers and short trees in a little garden they've started up near the ship. In the message they go on to tell you about how they've been doing there. Aunaris has been working in a school there, while Inturi has been helping other residents set up their own "ship-houses," as he calls them. Apparently it's become somewhat popular there after people saw the couple's home.
Longcow Antibiotics
Arach ranchers have asked you to pick up <cargo> on <stopovers>, then deliver them to <destination>.
You see some Arachi talking among themselves in the spaceport, occasionally glancing at and pointing at you.
	One of them finally comes to you and says, "Greetings, Captain. Interested in performing a cargo mission for us, are you?"
	She tells you that they are a cooperative of Arach ranchers, explains that the safety and health regulations for their business, longcow ranching, were recently updated, and that they need someone to pick up the newest antibiotics for the cattle on <stopovers>.
	"A jump drive you have, so get them faster - and allow us to resume business faster - you would."
	"You've found the perfect person for the job. I'm in."
	"I suppose that's true, but I'm not looking for courier jobs, sorry."
	The other Arachi come over to thank you after she signals to them that you've accepted to help. They explain that after you've picked up the antibiotics on <stopovers>, you'll have to drop them off on <planet> before wishing you a good trip.
The dockworkers load <cargo> into your cargo hold after verifying you've been hired by the Arach cooperative. A bit after the last crate has been placed, you're contacted by the Arachi, and they say you should bring the antibiotics to <destination>, where they will pay you <payment>.
You land on <planet>, but the Arach ranchers don't come to meet you as you've not brought the longcow antibiotics. Make sure all your ships carrying the cargo arrive in this system after you've picked it up.
Deliver the remaining <cargo> to <destination>, where some Arachi also work as longcow ranchers.
You're paid 421,000 credits when you land, but as you help the ranchers unload the antibiotics, they say that something is off.
	"Only 6 tons of antibiotics, we requested," one of them says. "That extra ton surplus, ours is not."
	She goes away for about ten minutes to contact the lab workers back on New Finding. When she comes back, she seemingly jokes with the other ranchers in the Arach language, before talking to you.
	"Mixed up the cargo, they have. His own longcow ranch on <destination>, a cousin of mine has," she says. "Sent along with my own, his batch of antibiotics was."
	They contact the cousin in question and he asks that you transport his own part of the antibiotics to <destination>, where he will pay you <payment>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying the longcow antibiotics hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You land and meet up with the cousin of the Corral of Meblumem rancher, and he pays you <payment>. "Mix up our batches due to our family name, the doctors always do!" he grumbles as the antibiotics are being removed from your cargo hold.
Arach Orphans
Bring these 4 Arach orphans, their caretaker, and their <cargo> to <destination>, where they will join a foster home.
An elderly Arach beckons to you as you enter the spaceport. He is accompanied by four Arach children, who all stand close to a large pile of luggage.
	He explains that he used to run an orphanage here, but has now gotten too old for the job. He has arranged for the four kids to be transferred to a foster home on <destination>.
	"Take care of them, the Saryds there will," he says, patting the head of the youngest and shortest of the kids. "Retiring, I am, but abandon them, I will not. An apartment close to the foster home, I will purchase."
	He offers to pay you <payment> to bring the five of them and their <cargo> to <destination>.
	"Of course I'll help. Here, let me help you get the luggage into my ship."
	"I hope things work out for you, but I'm actually not going to stay in or fly around Coalition space for long now."
You help the old Arach caretaker and some workers take the luggage out of your ship then head to the orphanage.
	A Saryd couple runs the place and greets you and the old Arach when you get there. Aside from a few Saryd kids, you notice the place already has an Arach child and some Kimek too.
	After you make sure all their belongings are inside the foster house, the Arach children head on inside to get acquainted with their new family. Their caretaker thanks you and hands you <payment> before heading inside himself.
A New Design
The Arach cartoonist Drugub is currently struggling to find inspiration for new spaceship designs in his comics. Head to <destination> and find something you can bring back to show him the ship models produced there.
As you're moving along one of the larger underground tunnels that connect the spaceport here, a dozen makeshift stands, each with a different apparent 'theme' to them, captures your attention. When you get closer, it's clear that the event is something of a convention, each stand managed by a different artist that lives here.
	After you're done looking at a stand that showcased various fantasy attires and move on to the neighboring one, its owner jumps as soon as he turns to see you, looking dumbfounded. He introduces himself as Drugub, a cartoonist of local fame for his science fiction comics, showing various examples of them as he speaks with you. "Many styles of ships produced in our space are, but only so many ideas from them, I can get," he says. "That you came here, lucky I am. To expand my creative horizon, I need, and seeing the general shape of some human ships would."
	"I can help with that. Do you have any type of ship in mind?"
	"Sorry, I'm just passing by, not looking for a job or anything."
	He looks puzzled. "For a variety of purposes, ships in my comics are used, so to know of a variety of ships, preferable it would be."
	You decide to give him a brief description of the biggest shipyards in human space, citing their history and design philosophy, from Syndicated Shipyards' cheaper designs to Deep Sky's sophisticated (by human standards) technology.
	When you're done, he thinks for a bit, then concludes that Betelgeuse Shipyards' older, historical designs, are what he's looking for. "Set during a less developed time, what I'm working on is," he explains.
	"In that case, I'll head to their home shipyard and see what I can bring back for you."
	"Alright, it's a bit of a long trip to <planet>, but if you're sure, let's head to my ship and I'll show you your bunk."
	"Oh, leave I cannot. Whether far away or not this <planet> you speak of is, allowed to leave Coalition space, we are not," he says. "Go on without me you must, Captain."
	He thanks you and wishes you safe travels on your journey to <planet>.
Return to Drugub on <destination>, and give him the flyer with pictures and some details of Betelgeuse's ship models.
When you ask the shipyard clerk if you could have something that detailed their ship models to "show a friend who is new to spaceships," she hands you a flyer. Inside, all of Betelgeuse's ships are depicted with some details on each (along with the pricing, of course).
	"Usually we show these to first time buyers, but you can take one if you want. Is your friend interested in buying? Maybe I could help you figure out what ship would best suit them."
	You thank her, saying that your friend does not have the funds for any of the ships and just wants some info, then head back to your ship.
	Hopefully a small pamphlet will do for Drugub to get some ideas.
Drugub is excitedly waiting for you when you return. However simple a piece of paper it may seem to you, he grabs the flyer as if it's some scroll of knowledge.
	He hands you your payment of <payment> and spends some time with you still, asking you all the questions he can think of about each ship.
	"Very beautiful, this 'Leviathan' is. Thinking of many ways to draw it, I already am," he says. "Maybe a flagship of one of my characters, make it I will..."
	He spends some more minutes listening to you after he asks that you describe how you've seen each of the ships perform, thanks you again, and prepares to leave.
	"Oh, before I go, Captain <last>, use the name of your own ship for that 'Leviathan,' may I? Just as a small thank you."
	"Of course! It's called <ship>."
	"The name is nothing special. I wouldn't even get the reference of it if I read your comic in the future, honestly."
	"<ship> it is! Do it justice I will, Captain. Thanks again."
	"Ah, I see. Well, just a reference it would be, so the name matters not, I suppose. Anyway, thanks again Captain."
Alitis, formerly known as Athis, is an Alpha who lives in the Coalition. Centuries ago, he stole a jump drive from an alien ship and used it to explore, but after some sort of encounter in the galactic east, he decided to give up on his former life.
You're window-browsing a shop in the spaceport when you catch the scuff of too quick footsteps coming towards you. Before you can glance in that direction, you're suddenly tackled into the ground by someone astonishingly human-shaped. You try to get up, but whoever attacked you pins you down, pressing your face into the ground and holding your arms behind your back to restrain you. As you struggle against your attacker you manage to catch sight of long hair and then, with a flash of concern, a glimpse of green skin - an Alpha.
	You are not pressed for long though. You feel the Alpha's attention shift to the side you cannot see, as an Arach swoops in with a tackle. The Alpha lets go of your arms in an attempt to block the attack, but it does not prevent the Arach from bowling them clear off of you where the two begin to wrestle in your line of sight. The Alpha is a man and, surprisingly to you, despite his strength, it doesn't take long for the Arach Heliarch to restrain your attacker. The Arach firmly pins his arms to his torso with four legs, holds his hips down with two, and uses her last pair to lever herself until she rests her entire body weight into pinning the Alpha.
	A Saryd Heliarch approaches and tells you to keep your distance before interposing himself partially between you and your assailant. He then looks at the Alpha and asks through his translator box, "What reason for attacking this person, did you have?"
	The Alpha is still struggling to try and get out of the Arach's grip, and you notice an intricate gold necklace which has splayed across his shoulder and onto the floor in the scuffle, jangling in the quiet every time he struggles. At this point, everyone else has cleared out of the area and is giving the scene a wide berth. As you get to your feet he ignores the Saryd's question and looks at you intensely. "You're with the Navy, aren't you? Finally figured out I was here, thought you'd finish the job?"
	"No, I'm not with the Navy. You could've just asked without slamming me to the ground."
	"Is that why you attacked me?"
	"I am with the Navy, but I didn't come here looking for you."
	"And I'm supposed to believe that crap?" He lashes out, trying again to knock the Arach off of him, but the agent only tightens the grip. She opens her mandibles, getting them close to the Alpha's neck. "Alright, alright, I get it!" the Alpha shouts, stopping his attempts to break free.
	He stares at you for a moment, as if unsure if you're telling the truth. "What the hell are you doing here then? Did you just stumble onto this place?" He stops struggling, but the Arach agent doesn't loosen her grip.
	The Saryd walks closer to the Alpha, stomping his hoofs on the ground with each step. "Whatever your motivation was, a transgression, you have committed. Punished accordingly, you shall be," he says. "Kindly follow us to the detention facility, would you, Captain?" he asks you, but doesn't wait for an answer, as more agents arrive to escort you and the Alpha to the "detention facility."
	On your way there, you start feeling stings on your arms and legs, and realize the Alpha's tackle left you with some bruises. "Treat those, we will, after faced trial, your aggressor has," the Saryd says as you approach your destination: a building similar to a police station. The Alpha is brought before a Kimek that you guess is in charge of the facility. He asks you to give a testimony of what happened, with the Heliarch agents confirming what you say. "Your first offense in a long time this is, Alitis," the Kimek says, after checking a computer for the Alpha's data. "Three years in seclusion, your sentence is."
	After the short verdict, which seems to lack much of the due process you would expect in human space, the agents bring both you and the Alpha to a lower level of the building. This floor has several empty cells kept shut by thick, tough walls of some transparent material. While the cell block does appear to go further beyond this section and around a corner, the first few cells appear to be directly opposite a modest medical space, presumably used mostly for treating any injured prisoners without leaving the secure level. At present though, all of the cells appear to be empty, and the Heliarchs simply lock him in the second cell, where accessing his would not obstruct any other doorways. The agents then ask that you wait a few minutes for a medic to arrive so that they can take care of your bruises.
	You notice that cut into the transparent material of the walls are a series of small holes at head-height with a cover that can be slid across them, presumably to silence a prisoner if needed. By default, they appear to be left open, and the Heliarch agents have not closed the one on the Alpha's cell.
	Your eyes shift from the holes in the wall to the Alpha to find his eyes fixated on you, not looking away or even blinking. After you stare him down for a couple of seconds, he speaks up. "What is it, are you expecting some sort of apology? I'd consider my caution to be entirely justified, so you won't get one."
	"Who are you? How did you even get here?"
	"What are you doing here in the Coalition?"
	He frowns at you. "I don't owe you any answers, cur. Shut up and wait for the law to bring the frail princess some band-aids and a lollipop."
	"Are you so busy in that empty cell that you can't answer me?"
	"Tough talk for someone who wrestled a spider and lost."
	He leans forward, his legs twitching as if stopped mid-tackle, and he pauses, turning to look down the hallway to where the Heliarchs went. He backs up, slowing his breathing, and then sits down. "Alright. This may be the last time in three years I can have a proper conversation, so I will entertain you. My name... is Alitis. Over a century ago my kin stumbled upon an alien civilization beyond the Far North in conflict with bands of invaders. These invaders possessed drive capable of jumping between systems without the need for hyperspace links, technology that we greatly desired, for it could put us far outside of the reach of... you." He fixates his eyes on yours, ever so slightly closing his eyelids. "We explored the far reaches of the galaxy to the east, but found no place to call home. Our only choice was to return to the Dirt Belt where we knew of an enclave of more kin, only for the Navy," he spits on the ground, then looks at you again, "to find us. We evacuated, and my kin thought it wise to return to the east, but I knew better. I stole one of the drives my kin had along with a small ship and began traveling west. That is when I discovered the Coalition, and they have provided for me a home that I have been unable to find elsewhere in the galaxy."
	"You 'knew better?' What do you mean?"
	"What, did you have a change of heart once you got here?"
	He gets up in a rush. "Full of questions, aren't you?" He approaches the wall again, in slow steps. "I was among the first of my kind. Athis, I was called then. I have traveled the galaxy for many centuries and witnessed many things. I have been ambushed, cornered many times; fear was not a stranger to me, for as soulless as your kind see me, we still feel. But when I traveled to the east, someone, or... something, rather, spoke to me. A voice with an immense weight. And for the first time, I felt something more than fear. I felt dread. So when my kin decided to return to the east, I was not so inclined to return with them."
	"Voices in your head? Are you sure you weren't just imagining them?"
	"What did the voice say?"
	He looks away from you. "You're here now, aren't you? This means you must have a device to jump beyond links as I did. Travel to the east and find out for yourself what the voices say. Find out if it classifies you as 'disposable' as well."
	He looks away from you. "No imaginary thing could have such an impact on me. You're here now, aren't you? This means you must have a device to jump beyond links as I did. Travel to the east and find out for yourself that the voices are real."
	The Heliarchs inform you that the medic has arrived, and bring you further down the hallway to a room where they treat your bruises. They examine you briefly, then give you a tube with a thick liquid, almost like a gel, asking that you gently apply it on your wounds. Once you're done, they tell you that the pain should wear off within a few minutes, and an agent escorts you back out. Passing by his cell again, you see Alitis still standing with his back to the hallway, looking straight at the wall. The agent brings you to your ship, and thanks you for your cooperation.
Transport Saryd Scientist
Starlit University on <planet> is hosting a seminar on xenology. Transport a guest speaker there by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
As you exit a restaurant in the spaceport, you notice a rumpled-looking Saryd staring at you. Attention from others is not new for you in Coalition space, as you are quite an unusual sight here. You don't pay him much mind until he begins to gallop towards you, hailing you down.
	"Captain! Excited to finally meet you, I am. Heard of the human in our space, I have, but to see you myself, special it is."
	"A scientist, I am, and invited to speak at a university seminar, I have been. Be there by <date>, I must. The honor of transporting me to <planet>, will you give me?"
	"What is the seminar about?"
	"Sure, I'd be glad to transport you."
	"Sorry, I can't take transport jobs right now."
	"A xenologist, I am. Alien cultures outside of the Coalition, I study, and the topic of the seminar, it is. Invited to give lectures on the subject, I have been. Take me there, will you?"
	"Thank you! Aelbris, my name is. To be late I do not wish, as not recorded, the event is." He soon gathers his things and boards your ship.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Aelbris hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
During the trip, Aelbris was polite, if a bit intrusive in his questions about your homeworld. You answered as best you could, though at times you struggled to understand what was even being asked. Once you and your passenger depart from your ship, he turns around.
	"Captain, that you must be very busy, I realize, but wondering if you could stay for the seminar, I was. You see, studying human space for years, I have been, but actually met a human, I had not. A great boon to our field to have a human guest speaker, it would be."
	"What do I have to do there?"
	"I don't think that I'd be a good representative of humanity."
	"How do you manage to study humanity without meeting any humans?"
	"Sorry, I don't have time."
	"Answering some questions from the attendees, would you be comfortable with? Simple, they would be, about aspects of human society, physical structure, and the like, they would pertain to."
	"Nonsense! Travel the galaxy, you do. A most knowledgable individual, surely you must be. Accept my offer, will you?"
	"Contact with a human world, Heliarchs have. Some documents on humanity, the government there gave. Shared their knowledge with civilian researchers, the Heliarchs have, so analyze the info, we do, so that understand humans better, we may."
	"Thank you! A great honor, you have done our field of study." He motions you to follow him.
	You and the Saryd take a train from the city to the base of a mountain. "Secluded, Starlit University is, so direct transportation, there is none," he explains. Instead, he leads you to a steep trail that presumably takes you to the conference. You notice that a small lift is installed along the trail, but it seems to be used exclusively by the elderly and infirm.
	After a long hike that takes the better part of the afternoon, you approach a collection of gleaming buildings. One of them has a few scientists and students, with Heliarchs guarding the entrance.
	You enter a small, dusty room where some scientists from the three Coalition species prepare their lectures. Your entrance immediately causes a stir, and several turn to look at you. Aelbris beams as he shows you to your table. You note the presence of several Heliarchs in attendance as well.
	"Ah, work closely with the Heliarchs, we do," Aelbris explains. "Share information with them and inform them of our conclusions, so that better informed about possible threats and opportunities, they are."
	"Now, unplanned, your visit is, so consult with the seminar organizers, I must." He brings out a small box that projects a holograph of an Arach Heliarch once turned on. Aelbris begins a conversation with him, but you cannot hear much of it; Aelbris makes an effort to keep his voice down in order to not disturb the other guests.
	You wait for a while, until a Kimek walks up to the stage in front. The box's volume is much louder than normal, and you can easily hear what is being said.
	"Pleased to announce that the 103rd Xenology Seminar, generously hosted by Starlit University, is now in session, I am. Noticed as you may have, in the presence of a very... unusual guest, we are. The honor of having <first> <last> answer some questions at the end of today's seminar, we will have." The Kimek gestures to you as Aelbris sits down at your table.
	The first speaker, another Kimek, talks about human farming methods as they compare to other members of the Coalition. You see him cite information from a modified data chip that appears to contain documents from the Library of Alexandria.
	The seminar goes on for some time. A Saryd gives a surprisingly accurate lecture on the human body. An Arach goes into detail explaining the technological level of human ships. Once all the speakers have finished, Aelbris informs you that it is now your turn to answer their questions.
	"Alright, let's go!"
	"I don't want to do this anymore."
	"To answer their questions, if you really don't want, I can't stop you, I suppose." Aelbris says with a sigh.
	As soon as you walk up to the stage, several scientists in the crowd stand up out of their chairs. The Arach Heliarch comes up to you on the stage, and explains that this is their way of asking questions. She selects a Saryd from the crowd.
	"What is the extent of contact that humans have with other aliens?"
	"Humans have official contact with the Quarg, but the Quarg don't trade technology with humanity."
	"Humans have official contact with the Quarg, but humans and Quarg don't really intermix."
	"Humans know about the Quarg, but most people know little about them."
	"Humans are in contact with the Hai. Some of them even live on Hai planets. They live to the north of human space, and we can visit them through a wormhole."
	"A few humans know about the Hai, but there's no official acknowledgment of their existence. They live to the north of human space, and we can visit them through a wormhole."
	The audience response is muted. You get the impression that you haven't told them anything they don't already know.
	Several members of the audience are delighted. "Unknown to us, this species is," says the Heliarch. "That you have made contact with them despite the Quarg, good news it is."
	"Tell us more of them, could you?" asks another scientist.
	As you open your mouth to speak, the Heliarch cuts you off. "Enough questions on the Hai, we have." The crowd looks disappointed at this development.
	Several members of the audience are delighted. "Ah, the Hai, we have heard of," says the Heliarch. "That you have made contact with them despite the Quarg, good news it is."
	The Arach selects another, this time a Kimek. "All of human space, united politically is it?"
	"No, human space is split between the Republic in the north and the Free Worlds in the south."
	"No, human space is split between the Republic in the west, the Free Worlds in the south, and the Syndicate in the east. The Syndicate is technically part of the Republic, but they have a lot of autonomy."
	As you answer the question, your translator begins to cut out. Repeating your answer does no good, as it continues to fizzle out as you talk. You look over to the Heliarch, who eyes the curious Kimek with suspicion. "Apologize for the malfunction, I must," says the Heliarch. "The next question, answer it please."
	"Yes, all of human space is united under the Republic."
	"Yes, but there are internal subdivisions: the Free Worlds in the south, the Republic in the north, and the Syndicate in the east."
	"No. Technically all of human space is under the Republic, but the Free Worlds and Syndicate have significant autonomy."
	Upon finishing your sentence, several in the crowd begin to write down notes on datapads. It appears that information on human government is new to them.
	The Arach picks another Kimek. "Piracy in human space, how big of a problem is it?"
	"There are entire pirate planets on the fringes of human space where warlords and criminals rule."
	"Piracy was a big problem in the past, but now it's a relatively minor issue."
	"There are many independent worlds that are not ruled by one singular government. Some groups there support piracy, but others are peaceful."
	"Stamped out, may lawlessness soon be," says the Heliarch in a solemn tone of voice. She picks a Saryd for the next question.
	Your microphone starts to fizzle out as you attempt to answer. The Heliarch's eight eyes are all on you, and you sense that it might not be a good idea to finish your sentence. The Heliarch selects a Saryd for the next question.
	"A fairly comprehensive map of human space, we have." The Saryd brings out a star map of the galactic south. "But of the core, we know not. Inform us of the galaxy, can you?"
	"Sorry, I don't know what's there any more than you do."
	The Saryd walks away, disappointed.
	(Tell them about the Korath.)
	(Don't tell them about the Korath.)
	"I've met an alien species there called the Korath," you say. "They're reptilian creatures. What's left of their planets has been ruined by infighting. The Kor Sestor and Kor Mereti have been fighting a civil war using autonomous ships. The Kor Efreti have stayed out of the civil war, living under the Quarg's protection. The Korath Exiles have been banished to the Core by the Drak for refusing to give up their ability to manufacture jump drives. They are now raiding humanity for supplies."
	The crowd shows considerable interest at this last part. "Knowledge of the jump drive, a species besides the Quarg possesses? Great news, this is! Our struggle against the Quarg, we do not take up alone. Possess jump drives, do any other species?" The Heliarch does not seem to mind you answering another question.
	"There are aliens to the north of human space called the Hai. Some of them steal from the normal Hai, and try to get their hands on jump drives any way they can."
	"Sorry, I don't know of any other species that does."
	"There is a faction among the Hai, the Unfettered. They steal from the normal Hai, and try to get their hands on jump drives any way they can."
	The Heliarch speaks up against the murmurs of the crowd. "Driven to such desperation, it is unfortunate that our allies against the Quarg are. Powerful like the Coalition, hopefully one day they will be."
	Several members of the audience are delighted. "Unknown to us, this species is," says the Heliarch. "Powerful in their fight against the Quarg, may they become."
	The crowd's mood dampens a bit, but everyone is still quite exuberant as you leave the building. It is now night, and your eyes take a moment to adjust from the lecture hall's bright lights. Aelbris meets up with you outside, bubbling with excitement.
	"Thank you, captain! Expanded our knowledge greatly, you have." He leans in, quieter this time. "Strict with knowledge of humans, the Heliarchs are. Unbiased sources of information, rare they are. Hope to see you again, I do. Safe travels!"
	After he shakes your hand, you say your goodbyes and board your ship.
	Upon the announcement of the interview's end, the crowd begins to leave. The mood is exuberant as you exit the building. It is now night, and your eyes take a moment to adjust from the lecture hall's bright lights. Aelbris meets up with you outside, bubbling with excitement.
Shrine of the World Shaper
Bring Vellorae to <destination>, where she will begin her mourning pilgrimage for her late husband.
Shortly after entering the spaceport, you catch the attention of a Saryd lady with gray, braided hair that reaches to her shoulders dragging along a single suitcase. "Hello, Captain. Taking new passengers, are you?" she asks. She shows you a piece of jewelry on her hand, a small bronze bangle with a diamond at the center. "Vellorae, my name is, and in need of a transport for a pilgrimage, I am."
	"Pilgrimage? What do you mean?"
	"Are you offering to pay me with that? I only take credits."
	"Sorry, I'm not looking to take any jobs right now."
	She gazes at the bangle, clenching her hand as she raises it closer to her face. "The remains of my late husband, Adfices, this is. Passed away recently, he has, and visit certain sites of worship, I want to, so that wish him a safe journey, I may."
	"You turned your husband into jewelry?"
	"I'm sorry for your loss. I'd be glad to help; could you tell me where you wish to go?"
	"My condolences, but I'm not looking to take more jobs right now."
	"A common practice, in Saryd families it is. Made out of cremation ashes, and much better at preserving memories of loved ones, these gemstones are." She explains. "Since developed, the technique was, practiced by nearly all who could afford it, it has been. To have the rivers and fields share our sorrow, we wish not. So nearly unheard of nowadays, Saryd burials are."
	"Well, I'd be glad to help you. Could you tell me where you wish to go?"
	"I see. Well, I hope everything goes well, but I can't help you. I'm not looking for any jobs right now."
	"Thank you, Captain. Five different sites, I wish to visit, and traditionally the first of them, the Shrine of Aul Kell is. On <destination>, it is. Once there we are, easy to find in the capital, it should be."
	You show her to your ship, helping her settle in her bunk. Once you're done, you set a course for <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Vellorae hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Caretaker's Blessing
Bring Vellorae to <destination> so that she may continue her mourning pilgrimage for her late husband.
Once you land on <origin>, Vellorae hands you 34,500 credits, and checks with a local tour line for the easiest path to the shrine. "Kindly wait for me, would you, Captain? Take a few hours, I might." She says. "Of course, if to come with me, you wish, happy to have your company, I would be."
	"If you're okay with me going, I'd be glad to accompany you."
	"Sorry, I'm not in the mood for a mourning ritual."
	Together you follow the streets out of the spaceport city and into a park filled with several different forms of trees twisting upon themselves; some reach far up to the skies while others anchor most of their branches into the ground. The trail brings you to a large clearing, where dozens of Saryds are gathered by a circle of tall, rocky pillars with an altar at the center. Many of the Saryds there are dressed in delicate fabrics of dark greens or ochre colors. Some of them are grouped into pairs that seem to be young couples, while others appear to simply be passing visitors to the shrine.
	Once the sun peeks over the tree tops and into the clearing, the visitors move away from the pillars and the altar while the couples line up and walk to it one at a time. There they remain for a few minutes, speaking to one another, before moving aside for the next pair. "Exchanging their vows, they are," Vellorae explains. "Our most popular wedding locations, the shrines here on the capital are."
	"I thought this was a shrine for mourning the dead?"
	"Popular? In the middle of the woods, by some rocks?"
	She looks at you in confusion, then chuckles. "The creator of all forests, Aul Kell is, so naturally inside forests, his shrines are. Odd, I suppose they may look, to one outside our culture."
	"Attributed with the gift of sunlight, Aul Kell is. As such, seek his blessings in the shrines, for many occasions we do. Only some of them, mourning and espousals are."
	The couples keep exchanging their vows until just before midday, when the sun is nearly over the central altar. At this point, the Saryds all look around the clearing, making space for Vellorae as they see her approaching the shrine. She places the bangle atop the altar so it catches the sun's light, reflecting it throughout the clearing. Vellorae then begins walking around the altar, repeatedly circling it as the sun climbs higher, until it finally reaches its peak and the sun's reflection on the gem is strongest. At this point, she approaches the altar again and covers the bangle with her hands. She remains there silently for a moment, and then she retrieves the bangle and leaves the shrine. As she walks past, the other Saryds give her sympathetic looks, and one of the younger ones even approaches to offer her condolences before Vellorae approaches you again.
	"Finished I am, Captain. Back to the ship, we may go," she says once she's beside you. You two head back; this time you pass by a few more Saryds on the trail and return to your ship.
	You wait for a few hours by the spaceport city until Vellorae returns about an hour after noon.
	"<destination>, the next stop is. To give Adfices Velaulra's Blessing, I wish," she says, heading into her bunk as you prepare for the next trip.
Visit the Witch of Dusk
Vellorae directs you to a part of the planet cut by a long, thin river, pays you 49,300 credits once you've landed at one of the available hangars in a larger village, and sets out for a marble rotunda by the river banks.
	Following her there, you see some Saryd mothers playing with their children. Others hold young infants or carefully bathe them in the waters. As the two of you step into the rotunda, you notice the painting on the ceiling: a Saryd woman laying in a field, watching over several children playing around her.
	Vellorae turns to you, removing the bangle and holding it in both hands as she presents it to you. "Join me for a silent prayer, could you, Captain? Wish to disturb one of the young mothers here, I do not."
	"If this place is a shrine, what's with all the kids playing around as if it was a park?"
	"Sorry, I'm not one for prayers."
	"Of course. What do I have to do?"
	"A deity of life and plenty, Velaulra is, and as the greatest bounty of all, life is, strong ties with newborn children, she has. Common places for mothers to bond with their young ones, her shrines are." Vellorae explains. "In my case, here to thank her for Adfices' life, and all plenty there was in it, I am. Take my hands for a prayer, would you?"
	"I know this is important for you, but I'm not one for prayers. Sorry."
	"I don't fully understand this, but I'd be glad to. What do I have to do?"
	"I see. That's fine, understand it, I do." She holds the bangle in one hand, covering it with the other, and closes her eyes for just under a minute while standing there in silence.
	"Just over mine, place yours." She gestures with her hands, and you both place them over the bangle. She closes her eyes as you do the same. You both stand still like that for just under a minute until you feel her move away.
	After the prayer, Vellorae leaves the rotunda and heads to the river bank, where she lays close to the waters and lowers the bangle to start washing it in the current in a slow and clearly ceremonial manner. The Saryd children watch her curiously, some edging closer before being stopped by their mothers. Once Vellorae is done, she places the bangle, still wet from the river, on her hand again and tells you that she's done at this shrine.
	You head back to your ship, where she tells you she'd like to stop at <destination> next. "Visit Magl Ina next, I must." She heads to her bunk, and you go to your cockpit to set course for <planet>.
Master Hunter's Path
<origin>'s spaceport searchlights guide you to the hangars in the middle of a thunderstorm, and Vellorae says she'll wait it out inside your ship as she pays you 45,500 credits. "At her shrine only after dusk, Magl Ina is anyway, so in a hurry, I am not." The storm lasts halfway into the evening, and once the light reaching through the layers of fog starts to dim, you open your ship's hatch for Vellorae to head out.
	You accompany her across the murky spaceport, until you find a local Saryd for her to talk to. Vellorae asks him if he would guide the two of you to the shrine. "To a site of worship, why is this human going?" he asks, while eyeing you somewhat suspiciously.
	"On a pilgrimage to mourn my late husband, I am." Vellorae says. "Helping me with traveling to each shrine, Captain <last> is."
	"But, to the shrine, must the Captain go?" He asks. "Help you with mourning there, a human cannot."
	"Helping me in this journey, the kind Captain has been, so mind it, I do not. Like to come with me to the shrine, would you, Captain?"
	"If it's alright for me to go, I'd love to."
	"I don't want to disturb anyone, so I'll stay by the ship and wait for you."
	"Wonderful!" she cheers, tapping her frontal hooves lightly on the ground. "Now, guide us to the shrine, would you, young dear?" she asks the local Saryd, who turns around and gestures for you to follow.
	You stick close to Vellorae as the two of you try to keep the local Saryd in sight. The task is difficult as he nearly vanishes into the fog whenever he gets too far ahead, only for his silhouette to become clearer again after he waits for you to catch up. After many minutes, you feel the ground beneath your shoes shift from the solid spaceport platform to gravel to wet patches of the planet's mossy "grass." Finally you reach a minuscule lake, or perhaps a very large puddle, in the middle of a mossy field surrounded by toppled and hollowed out tree trunks.
	As the two of you approach the water, the local Saryd warns you not to touch it. Vellorae looks at it as if gazing into a mirror, or perhaps she is just trying to make out the reflection of the moon, scattered and vague through the layers of mist. She then moves to one of the tree trunks, and placing the bangle inside it as she lays on the ground facing the water, lays both her hands reverently on the trunk. She spends nearly an hour in this position, during which the chill of the fog slowly seeps through your coat and into your bones. Vellorae and the Saryd who guided you don't seem particularly bothered by it, but she is quick to finish once she looks over and notices you shivering. She picks the bangle up from the trunk and stands, and then asks the other Saryd to guide you two back to the spaceport.
	"For taking so long, terribly sorry I am, Captain <last>," she says on the way back. "Lost in prayer I was, not even consider how uncomfortable the cold must've been for you, I did."
	"Don't worry, wasn't too bad. Seems you were really involved in praying."
	"Why did this one take so long? Is there something special about the shrine's deity?"
	"The hunter bird of nightfall and omens, Magl Ina is. When mourning someone dear, one is, ask it for forgiveness for their wrongdoings, they must."
	You follow the Saryd back to the gravel path and then to the spaceport grounds, where Vellorae thanks him for guiding the two of you to the shrine. He offers his condolences and wishes her a safe journey to the next shrine. He soon disappears into the fog again, and you and Vellorae head back to your ship.
	She sighs briefly, and agrees to meet with you later, following the Saryd local deep into the fog stretching out of the city. You head inside your ship, waiting for a few hours until you hear a voice just outside your hatch. You let Vellorae in once you realize that it's hers.
	"To <destination>, we must go now. The Path of Lor Ie Vees, I must take," she says, heading to her bunk to rest.
Woodland Thing
Bring Vellorae to <destination>, where she will finish her mourning pilgrimage.
Vellorae hands you 69,700 credits as you land, and says she'll head to the "path" once the sun sets. "Come to this world for our honeymoon, Adfices and I did, and visited the path, we had. Know its starting point, I already do."
	She tells you she'll pass the time until then by visiting local shops, asking if you'd like to come with her.
	(Go along with her.)
	(Stay in my ship.)
	She takes you around the spaceport city, touring some clothing shops and bringing you to parks she had visited with her husband. Shortly after noon you two enter a restaurant, where she insists on paying for your meal. You tour the city with her for a while longer and, just before the sun sets, reach the forest at the base of the mountain on top of which Starlit University is located.
	Once night falls, many lights start to appear inside the forest, and Vellorae beckons you to follow her in. "Stick close, you should. Difficult to navigate the path, for other species it often is." As you walk down a trail with her, you approach one of the lights to see that it's a bonfire on a platform in a miniature clearing, at what you hope is a safe distance from the trees around it. Continuing to the next light, Vellorae clutches the bangle in her hands the entire time, humming some guttural, almost tribal chant. As you pass by another fire, a short burst of flames gets closer to some nearby shrubs, but thankfully is put out before it can cause any harm. It is extinguished with an odd, large, fabric net on a pole by a cloaked Saryd who seemed to materialize from the trees near the fire.
	"Take care to not damage the forest with the path's fires, we must, so volunteer for keeping the flames, many of the local students do." Vellorae tells you. "When visiting here, Adfices and I were, wondered if any extra credits, the task granted, but apparently only out of a respect for Lor Ie Vees, the students do it."
	"Why? Is that some god of knowledge?"
	"Maybe they like being on good terms with the divine in hopes of doing well in tests?"
	She stops for a second to laugh. "The case, that might be." She looks around, seeing if someone else caught her breaking the serene, humming chant.
	"Taught the first Saryds how to hunt, he did. To pursue knowledge, and overcome challenges, his teachings are." She explains. "Seek communion with him, not only students, but all going through a difficult period, should."
	You continue to follow her closely through the forest, regularly passing more bonfires, until you see multiple lights in the distance and realize it is the edge of the forest leading back into the city. Only as you step out of the woods do you notice that you're back where the path started, even though you were certain you had kept to only one side of the mountain.
	Vellorae takes a final look at the path, where only a few of the bonfires' lights are still visible through the dense groupings of pine trees. She tells you she's ready to leave, and you bring her back to your ship.
	She says she'll be back at night and leaves. You watch a few transmissions from the planet, most of them in some way related to Starlit University. One is what you guess is a Saryd comedy movie, something about one who cut down trees in order to make scarves but came to regret it later. You try and follow along, but subtitles for the transmissions only come in Kimek or Arach. A few hours into the night, you leave your ship to wait for Vellorae, who arrives shortly after.
	She heads to her bunk, saying she'll rest for the trip. It hits you that she hasn't told you her next destination yet, so you knock on her door to ask.
	"Yes, Captain? Anything wrong, is- Ah! Forgot to tell you the next destination, I have!" You nod, and she looks at her bangle, brushing a hand on its gem. "Yes, the last shrine, the next one is... the next one..."
	"Are you alright?"
	"Is something wrong with the next shrine?"
	She ignores your question, fixated on the bangle for a few moments. "<planet>. To <destination>, we must go." She finally says, before going back to her room.
Vellorae hands you <payment> once you land, and asks, "Come with me for this last bit, could you, Captain <last>?"
	"Sure. Where are we going?"
	"I'll pass. I'm not up for it right now."
	Her eyes go to the bangle, travel around the room, and then fixate on your again. "Please, Captain? I know that agreed to follow me to the shrines for the job, you didn't, but alone there, I do not wish to be."
	"Alright, if it'll help you relax I'll go with you."
	"Sorry, but I'd rather rest in the ship."
	She takes a step back, looking down to the bangle again. "Alright. Yes, your responsibility, this is not. Meet you in the spaceport later, I shall."
	You open the hatch for her, and she heads to one of the Saryds nearby and begins to talk to them. A few seconds into the conversation, they tense up, crossing their arms and swiping them down as if refusing something, then running off. She tries again with some of the other Saryds, but continues to be rejected. She looks back at your ship dejectedly, then starts eyeing the other ships docked nearby before heading towards a Kimek Thorn that has just landed. As she talks to the captain, the Kimek seems confused, but after a moment he briefly reenters their ship, returning in a puffy coat to follow Vellorae to the railway hub.
	Long after the sun has set, the Kimek returns, rushing to their ship while trying to shake off the cold. You ask them about Vellorae, and they tell you she headed for the spaceport to "clear her head."
	She takes a long, deep breath. "Thank you, Captain. Far outside the village, the site is. Come, show you the way there, I will." You leave your ship, follow her to the railway hub, and board one of trains that appears to be one of the oldest and most simple. It lacks seats for non-Saryds, so you are forced to hold tight to what handrails you can reach.
	You remain on the train until the very last stop, when the sun is already starting to set. As you depart, you see a rural village with just a few dozen buildings and a simple dirt road, where a couple workers battle the snow and ice to keep it clear and easy to traverse. You follow Vellorae down the road, and once you reach a rocky pillar with a hole carved through it, she turns to the forest, heading out on a thin, straight trail. Looking behind you, you see the setting sun fitting inside the pillar's opening.
	As you follow Vellorae down the trail, you see the trees gradually show more and more signs of a forest fire, with darker, damaged barks, increasingly ashy soil, and many fallen, decomposing portions of the forest. The trail ends abruptly at a large scar scorched through the forest. The piles of ash still present below your feet almost resemble the rest of the planet's otherwise snowy ground, but somehow are kept from mixing with the snow. Whether deliberately cleared by more workers or some other force, you cannot tell. Near the center of the scar you see a small mound with an opening in the side, almost like a "shack" made out of the charred tree trunks and rocks. A faint light comes from within it.
	While you're looking at the mound, Vellorae grabs your hand and starts hesitantly pulling you towards it. Inside, the fading sunlight behind you contrasts with the source of the light within, a small pyre in the middle of the "shack" which has only a few lone flames dancing on the embers. Vellorae lays down in front of it, removes her bangle, and places it in the flames for a brief moment before snatching it up and standing again. Once on her feet, she grabs your hand again, tugging you along as she hurries back to the edge of the scorched clearing.
	She seems to settle again once you have reached the trail, letting go of your hand and slowing her pace.
	"What was that about? What got you so agitated?"
	(Stay quiet.)
	She doesn't answer your question, instead simply continuing down the trail. Once you pass the rocky pillar and are back on the proper road again, she finally speaks up. "That... to gift us sunlight, stole the eyes of Ensu Uri, Aul Kell did. Broken apart, It was, and of the light from Its eyes, only specks remained. But finished, It was not, so to implore Adfices is kept safe from It, this was."
	The two of you head back to the village and take the old train back to the railway hub. "Wait for you in the spaceport I will, Captain," Vellorae says. "Clear my head before heading back home, I must."
Pilgrimage's End
Bring Vellorae back to her home on <destination>.
You find Vellorae in a snack shop, finishing up a hot drink. "Apologize for the wait I must, Captain. Ready to leave, I was not."
	"Thought you'd be feeling better than this. You've finally finished your pilgrimage, after all."
	"I get it. Sometimes I also need a drink to help me think things over."
	She chuckles. "A herbal tea, this is. Help me calm down and rest on the way back home, it will."
	"Yes, relieved I feel, that able to do this, I was. Just... still coming to terms with everything, I am."
	She finishes the drink and gets up to pay for her order, following you to your ship afterwards. "Ready to head back home, I am," she tells you, heading into her bunk as you prepare the course for <destination>.
Once she leaves your ship, Vellorae gives you your payment of <payment>, and takes your hands in hers. "Deeply grateful I am, for having accompanied me in this journey, Captain <last>. Sure that grateful for your help, Adfices also is."
	She lets go of your hands, wishes you the best in your travels, and then turns and leaves for her home.
Council of Ahr
Bring the representatives of houses Ablomab, Bebliss, and Chamgar to <destination> by <date>, so that they may participate in the Council of Ahr.
Shortly after you enter the spaceport, an Arach in a sturdy, red uniform, with golden "pauldrons" on each of his legs' joints, approaches you. "Greetings, Captain <last>," he says. "Interested in taking up some transport jobs, are you? Very well paid, you would be."
	"What are the jobs about?"
	"Paid how well, exactly?"
	"Sorry, I'm not looking for that type of job right now."
	"Happening soon, the Council of Ahr is. Gather on the capital, all Arach houses do. Discuss matters related to Arach space, they will, alongside my lieges of the royal family. Paid <payment>, you would be, if to <destination> by <date>, the remaining representatives of the houses, you brought."
	"Sounds simple enough. Who are these representatives?"
	"Can you tell me more about the Council?"
	"That sounds like it might take a while, and I'm rather busy, so I'll pass."
	"Of course. A few centuries after leaving our home planet, entangled in petty wars, the more prominent houses were. Fearing for the fate of their subjects, called for the first Council, the royal family at the time did. A more civil way to solve disputes, it became, and though war still, many of the houses did, far less frequent, the conflicts were. Now that at peace we are, merely a traditional meeting, it is, taking place every few years, so that discuss how to improve the conditions of Arach space, the houses may."
	He shows you a data pad, pointing to three symbols on the screen as he names the houses from left to right. "Issues with her other transport, the representative of House Bebliss had, so waiting on Stronghold of Flugbu, she still is. Word that House Chamgar is ready for the Council, I just received, and on Hammer of Debrugt, their member is. Spare some time for the Council, House Ablomab finally can, and waiting for you on Delve of Bloptab, their envoy is.
	"Receive your payment, you will, once on <planet>, the three representatives are. I shall inform the houses that expect you, they should. Thankful for your assistance, the royal family is."
	He briefly bows his head while stretching his legs in some sort of salute, then disappears into the spaceport. Once you're at your ship, you place markers on <stopovers>, where the representatives are waiting.
You land on <origin> to find that House Ablomab's representative had to oversee an "emergency meltdown drill" on the neighboring planet, Bloptab's Furnace. His interplanetary shuttle still hasn't arrived, so you're left to wait for him on the spaceport.
	He finally arrives some hours after sunset, dragging along a heavy suitcase and barely holding on to what must be the Arach equivalent of coffee. As you help him with the heavy luggage, he introduces himself as Dubug. "Sorry about the wait, I am. Replace a coworker on the meltdown drill, I had to. A routine task, it is, but also routine, the Council is, so care much for the delay, the house did not. Show me to my room, could you?"
	While you're both walking to your ship, he finishes his drink, but it doesn't seem to help him keep his eyes open; you have to help him avoid bumping into either the other Arachi here or the spaceport decorations. Although he doesn't seem very talkative, it might help his focus to get a conversation going.
	"So, what can you tell me about house Ablomab?"
	"Is it difficult having to deal with all the other houses in the Council?"
	"This Council is hosted by a royal family, right? What can you tell me about them?"
	"The ninth house? Not much to say, there is. Agreed as the 'royals' they were, in ancient times. Never much power, they had, merely a figure of stability, made to assure peace on Ahr. Host the Council, they do, but a tradition it is. Otherwise, mostly to themselves, they keep."
	He grunts lightly. "The deepest mines and biggest smelters in all the Coalition, we have. Overseeing construction, assuring ore purity, testing the quality of alloys, our most common responsibilities are. In order, everything must be, so that met, the quotas for house Mallob's and the Heliarchs' ships are."
	"Started out as noble families from Ahr, most of the houses did. When first mapped out, Arach space was, carved their own portions, the houses did, and naturally for more systems, many fought. Now at ease with each other, the houses are, and ceased, the territorial disputes have." He sighs. "For the most part."
	Dubug makes it to your ship still awake, but doesn't care to answer when you ask if he needs help unpacking his luggage. Instead, he lays on the bed and asks that you wake him up once you arrive on <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Dubug hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Having rested during the trip here, Dubug stretches his legs once he steps off your ship. "All the reports from my house, I've brought, so prepared for the Council, I am," he says, checking his suitcase one more time. "Well then, go I must. Goodbye, Captain <last>. Thankful for the calm trip, I am. A good break from routine, it was."
Once your ship has landed, you receive a message from House Bebliss, directing you to a large hotel in the spaceport city. The security guards don't let you in, so you wait for the representative to come out. About half an hour of waiting later, an elevator nearby opens and many Arachi come out, most of them in formal uniforms and carrying various bags of luggage. An older Arach stands out from the rest on account of being even more formally dressed.
	"My transport to the Council you are, correct?" She asks, and you confirm. "Splendid. Lady Plubat, I am, Captain. Pleased that transport the will of House Bebliss, such an exquisite captain shall. Finally right, those arranging the transport to the Council have gotten it."
	She asks you to lead the way to your ship as the other uniformed Arachi follow the two of you, carrying her luggage. "Told, I was, about which representatives tasked with transporting, you were. Bebliss excepted, not the most... intriguing company, they are, so grateful that you're transporting at least one proper guest, you should be."
	"Looks like you hold your house in very high regards."
	"You don't seem very excited for the Council. Is there something wrong with the other houses?"
	"Is there anything I should know about the hosts of the Council? I heard they were royalty."
	"The Oberegts? Well, for one, one of the few houses to honor their noble lineage, they are. Elected as a figurehead, in ancient times they were. Never more than that, they have been, lacking real power and focusing only on Ahr, though contributed much to our understanding of medicine, they have. A figurehead, they are, but a good one, and as such some degree of respect, I must grant them."
	"Keep the Coalition together, House Bebliss does. What makes communication from one system to another possible, our efforts are. Other than the obvious importance of our work, one of the few houses that kept their noble bloodline pure, and who kept their original emblems, we are. Prejudice against those the other houses mixed with, I have not, but greatly value tradition, we do, and broken tradition, they have, in marrying commoners or... those of other species."
	"Drifted away from our old ways, most of them have. Take Mallob and Garbarag: barely houses anymore, they are. Fully transitioned into corporations, they have. Claim noble heritage, Debdo does, but in fact a splinter group of our own house, they are, the traitorous offshoots. The worst of them all, however, House Chamgar is. Lunatics clinging on to an ancient rivalry, they are, liars and revisionists who to tarnish our image, wish. Declare war on us, they would, if subjected to the Heliarch government, our houses were not."
	Once you make it to your ship, she has the Arach butlers tidy up her room, then dismisses them. She tells you she will call for you should she need anything then closes the door to her room.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Lady Plubat hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
You land to find a group of Arachi in uniform waiting nearby, ready to carry Plubat's baggage from your ship. "A delightful flight it was, Captain. Hope that you are picked again to transport me in the future, I do," she says, bidding you farewell and leaving for a nearby transport shuttle.
Lady Plubat rushes out of your ship to meet a group of Arachi in uniform, some of which carry her baggage from your ship, while others surround her as if expecting House Chamgar's Plubat to try and stir up a discussion. Once all her bags are out, they escort her to a nearby transport shuttle.
You can barely step off your ship before House Chamgar's representative greets you. "Honored that transporting me, such an esteemed pilot is, Captain <last>. Certain, I am, that honored you also are. An important task it is, to transport one from the great House Chamgar. Plubat, my name is, and as time we still have, show you our installations I must."
	He drags you around the eccentric spaceport, bringing you to odd exhibits where some pieces of technology are being constructed or repaired, going on about House Chamgar's advances. The tour goes on for some hours as you pretend to be impressed by what he calls "the newest prototypes" (most of which look like standard Coalition technology). Only after he drags you around again, stopping at a nearby hotel where he picks up his luggage, do you finally get him to follow you to your ship.
	It doesn't take long for him to get started again. "Now, Captain <last>, time for a full tour of our spaceport facilities, today we don't have; to the Council, we must go, but happy to answer your many questions about our great house, I am. Wondering how we invented our repair modules, are you? Or maybe by our special alloys, intrigued you are?"
	"Well, why don't you tell me a bit about your house?"
	"How about you tell me about the other houses that are going to the Council?"
	"Actually, I'm curious about the hosts of the Council."
	He stops dead in his tracks. "The royals? Well, not much to say, there is. Chosen as such on a primitive Ahr, only symbolic, their role is. Never held any ambition, they have, remaining the weakest house since formed. Assured stability on the capital, they have, and in good relations with us, they are, for recognize our value, they do, so bad, they are not, only uninteresting."
	You can barely finish your question, as he begins what is undoubtedly a rehearsed speech. "The greatest Arach warriors of old, we were, and always at the forefront of scientific progress and creative inventions. For the brilliant breakthrough that were our repair modules, persecuted by the Quarg, we were, but here, in this system, on this planet, held a chokepoint, we did. Guarded Arach space from them, for centuries we had to, until banished with the help of our Saryd and Kimek friends, they were."
	"Alright, most of them are. Amicable relations with nearly all houses, we maintain. Except with the scum from Bebliss, lying, treacherous snakes they are. Conspiring against the government, helping rebels they are! 'Their' world, Stronghold of Flugbu is not, stolen from us, it was. Heed my warning, Captain: trust them, you should not, preferable to trust a Quarg, it is."
	He seems ready to have you ask another question, but as you reach your ship, he picks up a call on a communication device and signals for you to show him to his room. He then says that he must handle some business, and that he'll talk to you again later.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Plubat hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
"Captain <last>! A pleasurable experience for the both of us, this has been, but sadly short, the trip from my home to <planet> is, so part ways, we must," Plubat says as he prepares to leave your ship. "To finish the tour of our facilities, I'm sure you want, so once over, the Council is, ask for me there, and guide you again, I shall."
House Chamgar's representative, Plubat, stays close to you while firmly clinging to his luggage, as his colleague from house Bebliss, Lady Plubat, has her bags brought out of your ship by some nearby Arachi in uniform. "Telling you I am, Captain, trusted, she should not be. Checked your ship, have you? All in place, your belongings are? Careful with her types, you must be," he says. After the Bebliss butlers are done, Plubat scoffs something at Lady Plubat one last time, then leaves your ship.
After departing from <origin>, you start hearing some shouting from outside your cockpit, so you leave to check up on your passengers. Plubat, from House Chamgar, is banging one leg against the door to the room of Plubat, from House Bebliss. "Captain! Good thing that here, you are," he says. "Sent an envoy to mock me, that damned house Bebliss has! Copying my name, she is!"
	Plubat, from House Bebliss, opens the door to her room to respond. "Nonsense that is, Captain. Look at us, several decades older, I am, so copying you, how could I be? The offending party here, house Chamgar is."
	"Changed your name for this mockery, you could have. Know of your house's grudge against us, I do," he replies.
	"Absurd, childish, that is. The one to start mocking me, you were," she says. "Captain <last>, urge you to make haste for Ahr, I must. Put up with this buffoon for much longer, I cannot."
	Lady Plubat closes the door to her room again, and you convince house Chamgar's representative to also go back to his room. You return to your cockpit, hoping that's the last of that.
In spite of your best attempts to keep them away from each other, Plubat and Plubat have been brief on their breaks from insulting one another. However, once you enter this system, they head back to their rooms on their own without you needing to leave the cockpit to interfere. Being so close to their destination, you hope they won't give you any more headaches.
A few minutes after the final representative leaves your ship, you receive your payment of 4,500,000 credits. It comes with a message from the royal family, with the symbols of all Arach houses on it. You recognize most from advertisements or offices on some planets, but it's your first time seeing the center one. You imagine it's the emblem of the royal family.
	"Greetings, Captain <last>. As the hosts of the Council of Ahr, thank you for your assistance we do. Although certain we are that, to you, appear mundane such kinds of jobs can, difficult, at times it is, to arrange for appropriate transportation for our compatriots from all great houses, so know that deeply grateful for your cooperation, House Oberegt is."
Underwater Delivery
Bring Apri'ie to <destination>, where five new deep-sea submarines are waiting to be brought to Second Cerulean.
You notice a Kimek anxiously glancing at the docks from the front of an office building. Once he notices you, he scurries closer. "Say, Captain, willing to do me a service, are you? Transport off-world, I need."
	"Where do you want to go?"
	"I'm not looking for transport jobs right now, sorry."
	"A prestigious research group from Second Cerulean, I represent, and looking to expand our deep-sea expeditions, we are. For that, just settled the acquisition of five new submarines, my superiors have," he says. "To pick them up from <planet>, I was selected, so transported there, I must be. Permitted to pay you <payment> for the service, I am."
	"Alright, I'll show you to my ship."
	"Why weren't they built on Second Cerulean in the first place?"
	"Sorry, I'm not headed that way."
	"No facilities for such construction, Second Cerulean has," he explains. "Remain mostly untouched, the planet must. Build more than simple research stations on it, we cannot. But in need of sturdier subs, we are, so held a competition to determine what company was to build them, my group did. In my opinion, honestly, not needed such a process was. Obvious that House Mallob would win, it was. Unrivaled in hull integrity, they are."
	"I see. Well, I'd love to help you. Let me show you to my ship."
	"What's so special about this planet that you can't do it there? One shipyard shouldn't be too invasive."
	"Well, I wish you luck, but I'm not headed that way, sorry."
	He thinks for a while, formulating a response. "Centuries ago, when built there, our outpost was, being worried that trouble the delicate, unique food chains there, further expansion would, prohibited all from settling, and us from constructing any more than the necessary structures, the government did. Enough data, we've gathered, that managed to convince them to allow us some extra exploration vessels, we have. More invasive, the studies with them will be, but enough about the fauna and flora, we now know, that avoid any major complications, we can."
	"Seems like a lot of bureaucracy just for some research. Anyway, I'd be glad to help, let's head to my ship."
	"If the planet's native life is all underwater, how would a shipyard pose any risk? It's not like you'd build it underwater."
	"That sounds overly complicated. I wish you luck in getting it all set, but I'm not headed there, so I can't help you."
	Like a bush in the wind, his body shivers wildly at what you said. "No, built underwater, nothing would be. Obvious that is. But, still, make the rules, I do not, Captain. Simply following them, I am."
	"Well, I'm not really interested in this, sorry."
	"Very good. Thank you, Captain. Called Apri'ie, and a member of the Pale Waters research center, I am. A wonderful trip, may we have." You bring him to your ship and help him settle what little luggage he has in his room.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Apri'ie hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Apri'ie has you land by one of House Mallob's offices, which looks like a mix of a skyscraper and a warehouse, and hands you <payment>.
	"Thank you for the assistance, Captain <last>. Meet with House Mallob's executives, I must, but if to continue helping, you wish, meet you in the spaceport, I will. The proper transportation of the submarines, the next step is, so if interested, you are, free up space for them, you must." He pauses, as if counting the total weight. "About 60 tons, they should take up. At any rate, talk more in detail in the spaceport, we may." He picks up his belongings and heads for the office, disappearing into the building.
Pressurized Stress Test
Bring Apri'ie and the <cargo> to <destination>, where the submarines will be subjected to some final high-pressure stress tests.
You need <capacity> to help Apri'ie move the submarines. Return here when you have the required space free.
After spending some time in the spaceport, you begin to ask around for Apri'ie and are directed to a small office of House Mallob. There, a manager briefly looks into their systems and informs you that Apri'ie hasn't left his meeting yet, and so you take a seat in the spaceport, occasionally getting up to check back at the entrance of the office he entered. After some hours, you finally see him exit, accompanied by a Saryd speaking on a communication device as they glance at a data pad.
	"Captain <last>! Glad that you are interested in assisting us further, I am. Prepared to have the submarines loaded into your cargo hold, are you?" Apri'ie asks. "Ready to conduct some final stress tests, colleagues of mine on <planet> are."
	"Sure thing, I've set aside the space for them."
	"What sort of testing are you going to do?"
	"Capable of enduring rapid shifts in pressure, the subs must be, so take quick, deep dives in the oceans of <planet>, and then resurface just as quickly, they will," he says. "Performed their own tests, House Mallob has, so most assuredly ready to go, the vessels are, but just as a formality, perform these tests, we must."
	"I see. Well, I'm ready to go, so you can have the submarines brought to my ship."
	"Why not just do those tests on Second Cerulean right away?"
	"Upsetting or startling the local fauna, as well as any structural damage, we wish to avoid, so wait until after the tests, we will, before deploying them in that planet's waters."
	"Let's get on with it then. My ship is ready to carry the subs."
	"Structural damage?"
	He stares at you blankly for a moment. "Delicately arranged, the glaciers there are. Resting on them, some of our monitoring equipment is. Avoid any damage to them caused by an unforeseen malfunction, we must."
	The Saryd issues a command on the data pad and turns off the communication device and accompanies you and Apri'ie to your ship as the cargo is loaded.
	There are five submarines in total, strapped to large, sturdy sleds, which are slowly pushed up the ramp to your cargo hold. The subs themselves are somewhat oval in shape but flat on the top and bottom, with retractable mechanical arms on their sides. After the last sub is safely in your cargo hold, Apri'ie heads into your ship and you set a route for <destination>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Apri'ie and the unmanned submarines hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
As the workers unload the submarines from your cargo, Apri'ie approaches you, handing you <payment>. "Oversee the stress test I must, so meet you in the spaceport again, I will. If interested in seeing the test you are, however, come with me, you may."
	"Sure, why not? Probably beats waiting around and checking shops over and over."
	"Thanks for the invitation, but I'm not really interested."
	After all the submarines are out of your cargo hold, they're placed atop trucks with heavy tracks instead of wheels. You and Apri'ie board one of the trucks and begin a trip down to the shore below, reaching a small commercial port with a large set of docks. Once there, Apri'ie introduces you to some of his colleagues who are already waiting to begin the tests. The subs are activated before they are off the trucks, and some of the Kimek begin to test basic functions.
	Once they're all in the water, everyone boards a sturdy barge which follows the submarines several kilometers off the coast until you can no longer see the shore. At this point they stop, and one of the submarines submerges, resurfacing in about twenty minutes. The Kimek make sure the sub suffered no damage, and proceed to test the other ones. After each one has made the trip to the bottom and back several times, the submarines and the barge head back to the docks.
	The subs are once again put on the trucks, and you begin the trip back to the spaceport city. Once you've arrived, Apri'ie's colleagues ask him to come with them to discuss something in private, and he tells you he will meet you back on the spaceport.
	"Then in the spaceport, meet you I will," he says. After all the submarines are out of your cargo hold, they're placed atop large truck-like vehicles, but with the wheels in a system of continuous tracks. Apri'ie boards one of the trucks, and they start making their way down to the shore below. From there, they follow the water out of the fjord to someplace where the submarines can dive deeper.
Tectonic Stress Test
Bring Apri'ie and the <cargo> to <destination>, where the submarines will be subjected to more stress tests to assess their repair functions.
You need <capacity> to take the next mission. Return here when you have the required space free.
Apri'ie comes to the spaceport followed by one of his colleagues. "Have to perform one more test, we will, Captain. To assess the subs' repair abilities in hazardous environments, Pale Waters wants, so a quick stop at <destination>, we must make."
	"Alright, we'll head there next then."
	"Assess their 'repair' abilities? What do you mean?"
	"Equipped with welders, the arms of the submarines are, so that if greatly damaged deep underwater, one of them is, repaired by the others, it can be," he explains. "Unstable tectonics, <planet> has, so a test repair during one of the nightly tremors, we will conduct. That way, assess their abilities without bothering Second Cerulean's fauna, we can."
	"Sounds like you thought of everything for these subs. Let's head there next then."
	"Why do you need to test under such conditions? Does Second Cerulean have trouble with tectonics too?"
	"No, no. But, preparing for any eventuality, we are," he answers. "Should the planet's plates grow unstable, or some other troubling factor come up, prepared for it, the subs must be."
	His colleague speaks up. "Headed to <planet>, another team from the research center has. Return to Second Cerulean with the data we have collected, I and the others will. Prepared the subs for your cargo, we already have."
	You follow him back to your ship and see that the submarines are ready on the giant sleds again. After they're brought into your hold, Apri'ie's colleagues say goodbye to him, and he enters your ship once more.
Deliver the Submarines
Head to <destination> with Apri'ie and the <cargo>, where the Pale Waters research center will use the new subs to conduct deep-sea expeditions.
Apri'ie instructs you to head to some hangars at a large port, where a team is waiting for the repair test. He hands you 130,000 credits when you land, and goes to check with the workers unloading the submarines.
	They are all taken from your cargo and swiftly put in the water as the team of Kimek boards a large ship that you guess is an old tanker. This ship prepares to follow the subs to the testing area, along with another smaller, newer ship with a thick crane on the front. Apri'ie approaches you before he boards the tanker, asking, "Come with us for the test, would you like, Captain? Take a while, it might. Not expected until after nightfall, the next tremors are."
	"If it's alright, yeah. Could be interesting."
	"I'll pass. I need some time to rest after the trip here."
	You head up the ramp to the ship, and after a few minutes it sets off, following the submarines controlled remotely by the Kimek team. Exploring the tanker, you find an odd pile of what looks like broken up ship parts, secured as cargo on the back. The pieces are welded together into a shape similar to the cockpit of one of the smaller Heliarch ships, though it has several dents, as if hit by some explosives. Apri'ie notices you looking at it and comes to explain that it's the "prop" on which they'll test the repair functions.
	Once the tanker comes to a stop, the smaller ship's crane grabs the prop and slowly maneuvers it away from the tanker before lowering it into the water and letting it sink. The submarines follow the prop as it goes down, until it comes to a stop after a few minutes.
	The Kimek operators then proceed to take shifts at their computers as everyone waits for a tremor to begin. After the moon is high in the sky, you notice odd shifts on the waves and trembling on the boats, with which the Kimek start their repair work. Once they're done, and after the tremors stop, the subs slowly bring the prop back up, where the crane places it on the tanker again.
	"Let's see..." Apri'ie heads to the prop to check on the welded parts. "Yes, very good. Performed well, the welder arms have. Good for deployment, they should be." The submarines go ahead once again, lighting the way back to the port as the ships follow them until docking.
	He heads to the tanker, and the ships set off, following the submarines. You walk for a while by the spaceport, stopping at a restaurant to have a Saryd pastry dish. You return to the port at sunset and wait until you finally spot the submarines' lights on the horizon heading towards the shore.
	"Worked perfectly, the welders have. Ready for deployment, the subs should be," Apri'ie tells you as he steps off of the tanker.
	The subs are once again placed atop the sleds and brought into your ship. Apri'ie thanks the Kimek team for handling the subs and heads back into your ship, saying, "Time for their final trip, it is. Bring the vessels and I to <destination>, you may."
The local workers carefully unload the submarines off your ship one at a time, bringing them to the icy waters nearby, where they will dive to perform deep sea explorations on the local fauna.
	Once they're done, Apri'ie invites you to enter the research facility, just a few kilometers away from the spaceport tower, with hangars of its own for your ship. There you're met by a committee of sorts; a handful of the local scientists greet the two of you, and thank you for helping with transporting the subs. "Having trouble reaching deeper sections of the ocean, our older probes were, so able to analyze a multitude of new species, with these new subs we hope to be," one of them tells you.
	When they're done, they hand you <payment>, and Apri'ie follows you to your ship. "Thankful for you putting up with all the last-minute detours I am, Captain. Safe travels, may you have." He does a short gesture as a form of goodbye: you put your forearm on the ground, and he places one of his legs over it. Once you're done, he heads back to the research center.
Scouting Permit
Transport Sedlitaris, a Heliarch Tribune, to the <destination>, where she will petition the Heliarch council to allow her to go on a scouting expedition out of the Coalition. Payment is <payment>.
As you exit your ship and start heading to the spaceport, you hear a rushed galloping getting closer. As you turn you see a Saryd Heliarch coming to you, gesturing for you to wait. She slows down once she sees you're obliging, and slowly walks to you while glancing at your ship.
	"Apologize for cutting you off, I must, Captain <last>, but in need of extended transport services, I am," she says. "Sedlitaris Quatcid, my name is, and a Heliarch tribune, I am. Brought to <destination>, I must be. A petition to the council, I am to make."
	"A 'petition'? What do you mean?"
	"I don't think you'd need some 'extended' service just for that."
	"Sorry, I'm not taking any more passengers right now."
	"Nearly a thousand years ago, leading an expeditionary fleet to outside of the Coalition, an ancestor of mine was," she explains. "Mimodum, his name was, and after having risen the ranks and lifted our family from poorer conditions, chosen to lead the expedition he was. Only, return, he did not. To find out what happened, I wish. Looking for you, I was, as after my request is approved, need a transport to bring me to planets he visited, I will."
	"I'd be glad to help you find out what happened. Let me show you to your bunk."
	"Couldn't you just have gone on your own, or paid someone to bring you there if you don't have a ship?"
	"Actually, I'm not going to be leaving Coalition space anytime soon. Sorry."
	She shakes her head. "Forbidden from leaving just like that, anyone is, and steal a jump drive for it, I'd need to. Obviously illegal, that is. Allowed to head out, only Heliarchs who have received permission from the council can. Finally time to hear my request again, they have, so go to <planet>, I must."
	"Well, let's not keep them waiting then. Let me show you to your bunk."
	"I hope things work out for you, but I'm not heading out of the Coalition anytime soon. Sorry."
	"Great! I promise you, very well paid you will be, once finished. For the moment, pay you <payment> I shall, when we arrive at the ring."
	You bring her inside your ship, and set a route to <destination>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Sedlitaris hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Sedlitaris gives you your payment of <payment> before you open your hatch for her to leave. "Take a few hours, this might, so wait for me in the spaceport, you can. Know the layout well, I do, so find you without issue, I will."
	As you open your hatch to see her leave, you're faced with a Kimek Heliarch waiting for the two of you, startling Sedlitaris as she sees him.
	"Made it clear, have I not, that cease your stubborn attempts, you should, tribune?" he asks. "Too precious, the consuls' time is. Keep wasting it in telling you off, they cannot."
	Sedlitaris brings a hand to her hair as she looks down. She opens her mouth, but cuts whatever she had to say at her throat. Instead, she goes down the ramp and leaves quickly for some section of the ringworld, ignoring the Kimek's protests. He sighs and approaches you. "Roped you into her exploration plan has she, Captain? An outsider with a jump drive, you are, so of course drawn to you, she would be, that girl..."
	"Are you two colleagues?"
	"What was that about her being stubborn?"
	"Kicharri, I am. For many decades, the arbiter supervising Sedlitaris' work, I have been. A bright girl. Produced many excellent theoretical models of the outside, she has, but in recent years, obsessed with leaving on an official expedition, she became. Denied her nearly a dozen times, the consuls have, but get the hint, she won't." He rapidly taps the ground with his legs, as if the ground was hot to the touch. "Helped her set up this specific 'petition,' I have. Asked the council to be extra strict and definitive this time, I did. Contracted you for a longer trip, I assume she has, but be allowed to leave, she will not."
	He wishes you a good day, and leaves to an office opposite to the spaceport.
Relay Pylon
Bring Sedlitaris and some representatives of the Heliarch council to <destination>, where members of House Idriss will provide her with a relay pylon to search for signs of her ancestor's expedition.
When you don't see Sedlitaris in the spaceport, you look for a spot to sit and wait for her, and notice a set of seats made for the Quarg, still around to this day. You take one that you assume was meant for a Quarg child, standing lower than the others, and wait. Captains and workers that pass by give you all sorts of looks, and after a few minutes even some Heliarch agents are gawking at you, discussing among themselves. Just as you decide you should get up and sit somewhere else, you look to see Sedlitaris coming into the spaceport.
	"A short wait, wasn't it?" she comments once you're close. "Care to hear my case, the consuls didn't, just told me that to leave whenever I wish, I may. 'If I can,' they said, as provide me a jump drive, they won't, but that's where you come in."
	"I certainly didn't wait around for long. So, where are we heading?"
	"Didn't care to hear your case? What do you mean?"
	"According to protocol, present valid reasoning for their expedition, and a thorough travel plan, aspiring inspectors must. This time, taken every legal detail into account, I had, in preparation for the meeting, but once I entered, barely time to greet them, they gave me." She explains. "Said that thought it over, they had, and willing to oblige, they were, so just sign a few documents, I did, and now officially an inspector, I am."
	"I take it inspector is what you call explorers?"
	"Good to hear they had a change of heart. So, where are we heading?"
	"No mere explorers, we are," she begins. "A rank granted with utmost respect to the Coalition's bravest, those unafraid to venture out into the void, to chart the unknown, it is. Date back thousands of years, the title does. First used by early Saryds, when set out to explore beyond the home system, they had, and then adopted by the Heliarchs, it was. Remain in use to this day, the term does," she says in excitement, pausing with a smile as if considering that she herself is one such "inspector" now.
	"So, will it be you paying me for the job, or is that the consuls now since they've officially approved this?"
	"You seem eager to get started. So, where are we heading?"
	"Approval for us to leave, they gave me, but provide any further assistance - be that a jump drive, or funding - they won't," she explains. "Saved up well over the past few years, I have, so once done we are, pay you several million credits, I shall. But, who knows, maybe if exciting enough, our findings out there are, convinced to give you a bonus, the consuls might be," she smiles.
	"Ready to go outside, we are not. Not for the purpose of finding out about the last expedition, at least. A tool from House Idriss, we need, if to trace my ancestor's steps, we are. To <destination>, we must go."
	As she's about to continue, your conversation is cut short by a Kimek rushing towards you two, shouting frantically. Once he's closer, you recognize him as Arbiter Kicharri from earlier, and Sedlitaris tries to calm him down while he's catching his breath. "Professor, if about my request this is, already met with the council, I have. Approved it-"
	"Know that, I do! Exactly what I'm furious about, that is!" He shouts. "Asked them to give you a definitive answer, I had, but not this kind of definitive! Listen, permission or not, safe to leave, it is not. Know that, you do." He looks at her for a few moments, then to you. "Captain, as her superior, greatly appreciate your intent to help Sedlitaris, I do, but too brash about this, she has been. Take her out of our space, you must not."
	He looks at her again, as if expecting some response. When no response comes, he turns away slowly, saying, "Waste not, your life on this," and walks away. Sedlitaris sighs once he turns a corridor and says she's ready for the trip.
	"Hold on, what did he mean by it not being safe to leave? I thought you had permission."
	"Alright, let's head back to the ship."
	"I do. Know what he meant, I also do not," she says, looking back to the corner Kicharri turned. "Approving of my wish for this trip, he never was. Some time to calm down, he needs. For now, back to your ship, we should go."
	"Alright, let's go."
	"I'm not sure I'm comfortable going after that."
	She steps back, seemingly shocked at your change of mind. "What? Captain, a superstitious Kimek, the arbiter is. Pay no mind to that rant, you should. Assure you I do, fine we will be."
	"I'm sorry, but I won't help you anymore."
	"I better not regret this. Let's head to the ship."
	Sedlitaris doesn't say anything, but makes no effort to hide her frustration. She looks to where Kicharri headed, and storms off after him.
	You find five Heliarchs waiting by your ship, who Sedlitaris introduces as representatives of the council, and who must be present when House Idriss provides the piece of equipment she wants. You show her and the others to their bunks and prepare for the trip.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Sedlitaris and the Heliarch council representatives hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it.
Dusted Dead Drop
Head to <destination>, where Sedlitaris wishes to check an ancient Saryd vault for the route and logs of her ancestor's expedition.
The Heliarch council representatives guide you far from the planet's equator to a region close to a snowy mountain, and tell you to land on top of a cube-shaped plateau. Dozens of searchlights are dotted along the edges, lighting the ground below, while a warehouse complex sits at the center of the plateau top. As you're approaching the plateau, your ship's sensors alert you to incoming vessels; you look at your radar to see a Saryd Sojourner, followed by three Travelers, getting closer to your ship. They appear unarmed, but as you land on the plateau and they follow you down, defensive turrets on the edges of the complex remain locked onto them.
	Once the Sojourner lands, a Saryd comes down the ramp and heads to your ship. Sedlitaris sighs and leaves to meet him, followed by the representatives of the Heliarch council. Once you're all out of your ship, you see the Saryd has been stopped by a trio of Arach guards, clad in winter uniforms and blocking his path. "Told mother or father about this, have you?" he shouts at Sedlitaris as she walks closer. "Because important enough to be told, I apparently am not. That out to die you were, told I was by some Kimek arbiter that met, I never had!"
	"Repilor, a work trip, this is. Away for long, I won't be, so wish to trouble you all with the news, I didn't," she responds.
	"Trouble us? In truth, know that wrong, you are, but face telling father that you're throwing your life away, you couldn't!"
	He tries to push his way to her, but the guards stop him before he can make much progress. One of the Heliarch representatives gets closer, saying, "A restricted area, this is. Invading government property, you are, so suggest that you leave immediately, I do."
	"Restricted? What about the outside? Also restricted, is it not? Much more dangerous? Fine with sending my sister there, you seem," Repilor counters, and the Heliarch looks away after a moment. "If bothering the consuls so much, she was, just fired, she should've been!" He then looks at you, and continues, "And the human? Your transport out of here, I imagine? Or maybe the one who put these ideas in your head, they are?"
	"I've just been hired to transport her."
	"What's so wrong about her wanting to explore outside the Coalition?"
	"Wait, what did you say about the outside being dangerous?"
	The Saryd looks at you, puzzled. Then, as if realizing something, he turns to Sedlitaris. "Told the human, you haven't?"
	"Enough that is, Repilor. Trespassing on a restricted area, you are. Escort him to his ship," she tells the guards, and after some struggle on Repilor's part, the Arachi manage to push him back inside the Sojourner. "Ignore that you should, Captain. Always... difficult, my brother was. Too stubborn to realize when to stop, and easy to impress with folk tales of the outside."
	"If you say so. Should I wait in my ship until you all are done here?"
	"Folk tales or not, I'm not really willing to find out after that. He didn't seem to be lying."
	"What?" she exclaims. "Please Captain, fall for my brother's little rant, you cannot. Finally permission to leave, I have!"
	"Alright, alright. But I hope I don't regret this."
	"I'm sorry. Whatever it is he was afraid of, I'm not willing to risk it."
	"You won't." She says, heading to you and holding your hands with hers, as if in thanks. "Promise you I do, fine we will be, Captain."
	You hear her stomping her hoofs on the ground as you head back to your ship, and see her and the Heliarch council representatives arguing with one another as you close your hatch. When you're back on the spaceport landing area, a Sojourner lands next to your ship, and Repilor, the Saryd from earlier, comes out.
	"Forgive me for being rude earlier, you must," he says as he greets you. "Thought I had, that talked my sister into this you did. That filled her head with more grandiose tales of the outside, you must have." He sighs. "Thank you, Captain. Hate you now, my sister must, but the right thing, you did.
	"That no inspector in the last 6000 years has ever returned from their expedition, the truth is, so afraid you were leading my sister to her death, I was. Better for the both of you, this is." He gives you a few seconds to process, then continues. "Please, hold it against her, I ask that you do not. Certain I am that intending you no harm, she was. It's just... trying to leave for so long, she has been, that afraid of telling you the whole truth, I imagine she was." He nods lightly in a bow, and heads back to his ship.
	"Awaiting 'explorers,' nothing but an unknown, certain doom is. Wish for that to be my sister's fate, I do not," he answers.
	"Captain <last> has nothing to do with it. Simply agreed to help me, they have, no different from the jobs you take, this is." Sedlitaris says.
	"A job, this is not, but a trek bound to end in tragedy." He thinks for a few seconds, looking at the Saryd ships that landed on the plateau. "Permission to leave, you have, but obligated to do so, you aren't. Quit, you still can. Leave the ranks, you could, and work with me. Give you my own ship, I will. Like that, would you not? To fly a ship of your own again?"
	"Finally allowed to leave, I am. Let go of this opportunity I won't, Repilor. Back in a few weeks, I'll be, lecture me all you want then, you can."
	He stares her down for a while, bringing a hand to his face to wipe some tears forming on his eyes. "Wiser than this, the elder sibling should've been." He turns around and heads back to the Sojourner, which departs along with the three Travelers.
	The representatives urge you and Sedlitaris to follow them into the complex, making your way past the walls and fences, and into one of the larger warehouses. Inside, large shelves stacked to the ceiling surround a hexagonal hole in the middle, closed off by metal bars and a shut gate. You're told it's an elevator and is bringing up the piece of equipment Sedlitaris requires.
	"Deeply sorry for that scandal you witnessed, I am, Captain," she says while you wait. "Imagined, I hadn't, that follow us here, my brother would."
	"It's alright. It shows he cares a lot about you."
	"Wasn't he trespassing here? Why was he even allowed to do all of that?"
	"What was he so worried about? Did something happen to make him afraid of you leaving?"
	She thinks for a bit, then says, "Prohibited to leave, both civilians and regular Heliarchs are. Only agents with permission from the council - inspectors like myself - may do it. A simple measure to help protect our limited jump drives, it is, but birthed something of a taboo among the populace, that law has."
	She chuckles. "Probably because agree with him, the guards do. Seen Arbiter Kicharri's reaction, you did. Not very supportive of this expedition, most within the ranks are."
	"I suppose so. Just, wish that show it in less... brash ways, he would."
	The elevator arrives and brings up an Arachi pair carrying a tall, antenna-like pylon, covered in insulating wires that spiral around it. The Arachi bring the machine out of the elevator and present some documents for the Heliarch representatives, who take turns reading and signing them. At the end, Sedlitaris signs as well, and the Arachi bring the pylon to your ship.
	Once everything's ready, the Heliarch representatives ask you to bring them to the spaceport city. They are quick to leave your ship once you land and do not bother to say goodbye to either you or Sedlitaris, instead just disappearing into a Heliarch building.
	"Well, all set to leave now, we are," Sedlitaris says. "Ready to leave for our first stop, are you, Captain?"
	"Of course. Where are we headed?"
	"Can you tell me what that machine is? How is it going to help?"
	"A decryption pylon, it is. Developed to keep our data safe, they were," she explains. "Generate a unique encryption pattern, each expedition would, so that find important information about them, outside forces couldn't. Calibrated to the pattern of my ancestor's expedition, this one is."
	She asks to see your galaxy map, and compares the data with what's recorded in the pylon. After comparing what systems match for a few minutes, she points you to <destination>. "The first stop of every expedition, that world was. Kept there, a collection of log entries are, detailing the plans each leader had for their own expedition. Do you know if found this world, humans have, Captain?" You explain to her that <planet> is home to a small human town, but that you haven't heard of alien findings there. "Hope that found and picked it over, humans haven't. Much easier, it would be, if the precise location the fleet was headed to, we knew. Have to travel hundreds of systems in search of their stops, and later piece them together in order, we would not."
	You help her bring the pylon into her room and set course for <planet>.
Report: Distant Home
Take Sedlitaris to <destination>, the first stop of the expeditionary fleet other than the vault, so that she can begin piecing together what happened.
Coming down to <origin>, Sedlitaris checks for the coordinates where the ancient Saryd stop is, passing the data to your ship's systems. It brings you to a mesa on the desert, with a wide, ravine-like hole on top. You land close to a small opening on the mesa walls leading into the ravine and follow Sedlitaris into it, helping her bring the pylon inside. About halfway to the end, she points to another hole in the walls. "Past there, the pylons of previous expeditions should be. Find the one Mimodum left here, we must. A physical connection with the one we brought, for this first one we'll need. 'Wake up' the other ones his expedition left, it will, and enough battery for easier access to the data in those, they should have."
	She carries the pylon inside as you light the way. After some short minutes inside the tunnel dug into the mesa walls, you reach the end: a room carefully carved out, with ten objects similar to the pylon Sedlitaris carried there, though four are of very different design, being closer to a beige, blocky obelisk. She puts down the pylon, and asks that you shine a light on it so that she can configure it. Then, she begins to tinker with some wires connected to a panel on the lower half of the pylon. "To determine which one of these is the most recent, send a signal in its frequency, I will."
	"Was all this process set up so the Quarg couldn't get your logs, if they found them?"
	"What's with all the caving involved in getting to these pylons?"
	"Understand your frustration, I do," she says. "After explored outside with jump drives, the first Saryds to leave the Coalition had, attempted to colonize a few worlds they found, they did. Failures due to the great distance to Saryd space, and difficulty in getting supplies, they were. Because of that, once leaving initial expedition logs in this world, we began, bothered to create proper infrastructure, my predecessors didn't." She thinks for a while, then continues, "Although, help make it less likely for others to find it, the poor entrance might."
	"No, employed this method before they ever came in conflict with the Quarg, the ancient Saryds did," she explains. "Actually, the ones who suggested it in the first place, the Quarg were. Worlds apart, the programs used before and after the War of Independence are, but kept in place, the overall practice was."
	Once she's done with the wires, she pushes a button and a humming beep comes from one of the machines with the same, spiraling design. "That one, it is," she says, and asks that you help her move her pylon close to the one that emitted the sound. She connects the two with cables by the base of each pylon; the older pylon clicks on after a moment, letting out several beeps in a short chant. "Enough energy to transfer its data now, it should have."
	A few seconds pass, and another hum comes. She looks at a small screen on the panel, and confirms that the data's all safe. "Copy the data from expeditions prior to their pylon here, the sixth did, so saved us some time, they have. Play their recorded log via my translation device, I shall." She disconnects the two pylons from one another, and inputs a few commands on the panel. After a short pause, an audio message begins playing, and is picked up and translated by the box hanging from Sedlitaris' neck.
	"Log started, sixth expedition to the outside. Arbiter Mimodum, this is, leading the sixth. Using these pylons, keep track of our major stops, we shall. To push out further than what is recorded in our previous maps, if possible, the mission directive is. Wish to gather data on how safe the outside systems are, I do. Split the fleet in half, I have. To head straight east, the four Punishers of the split group are. After that, rendezvous with us as we come down from the north, they will. Regarding the Punishers currently under my command, headed to Distant Home, we are. Evaluate how the planet has developed, we shall, to determine if sustainable, a base or colony on the planet is. Set a pylon there with our findings, we shall."
	The recording ends, and Sedlitaris picks up the pylon again, preparing to carry it back out of the caves. "Know our next destination, we now do," she says.
	"Do you have any idea where 'Distant Home' is?"
	"What did he mean by 'if possible'? Was something stopping them from exploring past a point?"
	"Stopping them?" She takes a long pause, eyes locked onto the pylon. "Wonder that, I also do. Perhaps encountered some complication, they had. Learn more from other log entries, I'm sure we will."
	"Our first attempt at colonizing an outside world, it was. Somewhere northwest of here, it should be, but consult your ship's records for the exact coordinates, we'll need to."
	You two make your way out of the cave, returning to the ravine, and from there head to your ship. Sedlitaris asks for your map and compares the coordinates with the data from the pylon again, finding that <destination> is what the recording referred to as Distant Home. She heads to her room, and you set <planet> as your destination.
Report: Ancient Light
Take Sedlitaris to <destination>, the next stop of the expeditionary fleet, where her ancestor wished to look into remnants of some alien ruins.
As you pass through the first clouds of <origin>, Sedlitaris starts working on the pylon, getting a faint beep moments after she's done. "Further south, this world's pylon is." You fly your ship southward, and she asks that you stop halfway to the pole. She inputs commands again, and another beep comes. "Passed it, we have. Determine its exact position, we must. Little battery for these countersignals, the pylons have." You fly northeast, and then straight west, with her emitting a signal each time your ship stops.
	After you've triangulated the pylon's coordinates, you fly down to a glacier and land on a spot that looks stable enough to handle the weight of your ship. Sedlitaris says the pylon must have gotten covered in the ice due to glacial melting and refreezing, though that doesn't seem to have damaged its systems; she accesses the data remotely after tinkering with the pylon in your ship for a while.
	Once it's done, she plays the log recording the expedition had for this planet: "Log started. Developing as expected, this world is, and apparently still untouched, it remains. Too cold for non-Saryd residents, it is, but with some terraforming efforts, a comfortable enough base for Kimek and Arachi agents alike, it could be. The planet aside, noted a great deal more hyperlane connections, we have. Dependent on them, this fleet is not, but differ greatly from previous records, current ones do, as if scrambled and then rearranged, they were. Heading to Ancient Light next, we are. Check on the ruins and dragons there, we must."
	The recording ends, and Sedlitaris starts comparing the data she got with the map on your ship. "Right, he was. At some point after the fifth expedition, and before the sixth, altered, this region's hyperlane network was."
	"Any idea how that happened?"
	"I take it that 'Ancient Light' is where we're going next?"
	"Vital to our communications network, the hyperlanes are. The most advanced group on that field, House Bebliss is, but learned of means to tamper with hyperlanes, even they haven't." She pauses, looking to the nearby systems bordering the Coalition. "No link to our space, there is, before or after the change. If a natural phenomenon, the scrambling of links is, very unlucky, we were."
	"Well, at least we know where to go next. Can you match coordinates with my map to find where 'Ancient Light' is?"
	"And if it's not natural?"
	She stays quiet for a minute, not taking her eyes off the map. "Told the ancient Saryds of a group, the Quarg did. 'Drak,' I think they called them. Said that knit together the paths between star systems, they had. Maybe their doing, the scrambling was."
	She compares the coordinates for Ancient Light with your map, and finds <destination>. You tell her you'll set course for <planet>, and she heads back to her room.
Report: Summit
Take Sedlitaris to <destination>, the furthest point north on the pylon's records and next stop of the expeditionary fleet.
Sedlitaris starts triangulating to find the next pylon again, and brings you to a tall mountain where some of the local dragons appear to have made some form of nest or breeding ground. You do your best to avoid them as you fly around the mountain, and Sedlitaris continues to send signals to find the pylon.
	"Inside the mountain, it could be. From there, the countersignals are coming." She stops for a few minutes and looks at the view of the mountain on your monitors. She tries again, and asks that you get closer. When you're finishing yet another lap, she asks that you stop your ship, keeping it steady in the air. "Zoom your cameras here, could you, Captain?" she asks, pointing to the middle of a monitor. You zoom in and see a circle of large rocks, surrounded by dragon nests. Atop the rocks are some patches of foliage, and in the middle lies a small, dark, tower-like structure, stuck in the rocks by one end. After looking at it for a few seconds, you both realize it's an upside-down pylon. "Taken it as some form of token, the dragons must have," Sedlitaris says. "Hopes of retrieving some of the pylons physically, I had, but prefer to dig out the glacier for the previous one than test my luck against the dragons, I do. Unlock this one's data remotely, I will."
	A dragon perches on your ship as she begins the transfer. It tries to bite down on the engines, but you start moving your ship again to shake it off. You avoid other dragons as they fly by your ship until the download is complete, and head straight for the spaceport city.
	Once your ship has safely landed at the hangars, Sedlitaris plays the audio log: "Log started. Scoured the planet with our searches, we have, but no trace of the previously visited ruins, or any other sign of the group that lived here, we found. Assured me that all our ships' navigation systems are working properly, the engineers have, but at the coordinates where they should be, the ruins are not, as if they had never been there. A confusing disappointment, this was, but continue with the mission, we must. Heading far north, to Summit, we are. The last point before regrouping with the split group, it will be."
	As the recording ends, Sedlitaris looks at you confused. "An intelligent species once lived on this planet. What findings Mimodum would have on them, I wondered, but found nothing, he did? Simply vanish out of nowhere, ruins cannot."
	"How do you know about that species?"
	"What was in the ruins before they disappeared?"
	"Found the ruins millennia ago, the first Saryds to come to the outside did. Recovered some artifacts, they also had, complex tools, such as very large, personal propelling devices, with dedicated storage space. Kept in some museums back in Saros, they are."
	"Did they ever find any member of that species?"
	"They couldn't find out anything more? Just some jetpacks with pockets?"
	She shakes her head. "Stocked primarily with provisions, those first expeditions were. Prepared to take on proper archaeological study on this planet, they were not. Asked the Quarg about the findings, the Saryds had, but to their surprise they acted as if there was nothing here. For the time, very odd of them to do that, it was." She turns to you with a curious look. "What about humanity, Captain? Found any clues about the species that lived here, have you?"
	"No, I didn't even know there used to be ruins here."
	"Actually, yes. They were called Sheragi."
told coalition about sheragi
	Surprised that you know more, she listens to your story with Albert Foster, and how you had a dream about ships evacuating Zug. You tell her of the city buried under the layers of rock, the efforts to uncover it, and how the Quarg eventually sent someone to keep watch of the digging process.
	"Cities buried whole by lava? Tuned their scanners to look for such odd ruins, no expedition must have..." she stops and thinks for a few minutes, working on the pylon's command panel. "Tell the story again, could you, Captain <last>? Formally record the findings here, I would like." You spend the next few hours retelling what you saw, and helping her collect what information on the Sheragi and their ruins humans have learned since Foster published his initial findings.
	Once she's satisfied, you two look to your map and match coordinates with the next stop Mimodum made.
	She frowns slightly. "Figured as much, I had. Well, finding out more about them, the point of this expedition wasn't. A nice bonus, it would've been, but prepare to look for the next pylon, we should."
	You open your map, and using the coordinates, gather that "Summit" is <planet>, a small moon close to the entrance to The Deep. Sedlitaris returns to her bunk, and you set course to <system>.
Curious Red Cloud
Look for the system near Algieba where Mimodum, the expedition's leader, jumped to investigate the cosmological phenomenon in the system.
You fly around the moon as Sedlitaris nails down the coordinates of the pylon, until you land close to one of the forests. "Deeper inside, the pylon must be. Uninhabited by humans this world is, correct?" You confirm this, and she prepares to leave. "No dragons to worry about here, there are, so try to bring this pylon back with us, I will."
	You two leave your ship and enter the forest, taking turns carrying the pylon you brought, which is easy enough to do since the gravity is so much lower here. Occasionally Sedlitaris stops and has the pylon put down so that she can determine where to go next. Eventually, you notice the trees start getting smaller as you move on, until you reach a wide, odd clearing where the ground is devoid of any of the local flora. Sedlitaris spots the other pylon on the opposite side, half stuck in the ground, and moves to pull it out. As you follow her to the machine, you notice deep, perfectly straight holes in the ground, forming lines that sometimes cross the entire clearing and continue well past it. Soil and dust have filled most of them up, but in certain gaps you can look down to cracks that must be dozens of meters deep.
	Sedlitaris ties a rope around the end of the pylon that's visible and pulls it, forcing up the dirt as she brings the rest of the device to surface. She connects it with the pylon you brought and accesses the data from there. "Much more active here, the expedition was," she says. "Three recordings, there are. Bring these back to your ship, we should; listen to the first one there, we can."
	Both of you carrying a pylon, you make your way out of the forest and back to your ship, where Sedlitaris immediately plays the oldest entry: "Log started. Send two Punishers further north, I did, but returned yet, they have not. As for the crimson anomaly on the nearby western system, still unresponsive, it is. Be it a Finisher barrage or attempting to ram it, no reaction from the anomaly, there was. A simple nebula, the researchers claim it is not; think that we are missing something, they do. Wait a few more days for the Punishers to return, I will. In the meantime, back to that system, I will go. Maybe learn something about the anomaly, we can."
	After Mimodum's voice has disappeared, Sedlitaris urges you to take off. "Heard of this 'anomaly' before, I had not. Look for the system it's in, at once we must. Hopefully still there after the centuries, it is."
Sedlitaris fiddles with the pylon you recovered from <origin>, and lets the second recorded log play while she gazes out to see the "crimson anomaly" Mimodum had mentioned.
	"Tried just about everything now, we have. A finisher barrage, bombardment from afar, driving asteroids through it, even activating our jump drive while immersed in the red cloud. Told me that it shows some signs of rotation, the chief researcher has; tried to show me the axis around which it spins, she did. Whatever the case, find anything worthwhile about the cloud, we could not. Returning to Summit now, we are, and from there to regroup with the fleet."
	The recording ends, but Sedlitaris continues looking out to the "cloud" for a few minutes, in silence.
	"Are you going to play the last one?"
	"No, just... taking in the view, I was. Unlike any phenomena from within the Coalition, this is."
	She moves back to the pylon, and hesitates for a moment. "Back to Summit, Mimodum said they would go. Better understand his next steps, we would, if listen to the last entry on that clearing where we found this, we did," she says, tapping the pylon.
	You tell her you'll go back to <origin> soon, and she heads to her bunk.
Lost Checkpoint
Travel to the marked systems so that Sedlitaris may look for a signal frequency of the expedition.
You land next to the forest again and venture into it once more. The trail fresh in your memory, you two reach the clearing quickly, where Sedlitaris puts the pylon close to where it was before being dug out. "Almost like if we were there with them, this should be, being right where they left the pylon. Hopefully a better understanding of what they were thinking, it will also provide."
	She starts the recording, and sharp, static beeps are the first thing you hear. After a moment, you can make out agitated voices, as if the crew was discussing something, but Sedlitaris' translator doesn't pick it up. Finally, the familiar voice of Mimodum comes out, "Destroyed, the rest of the fleet was. Made it back to the system, one of the Punishers that headed north must have; ran into some debris pieces floating about in the system, we did. Take off, the rest of those on Summit couldn't. The ground is..." the static returns, this time including some scratch-like stops. "... cut like clay... rock... molten..." It switches to static once again, then stops for a moment. When it's back, the interference noises are gone. "Meet with the split group, I must. Warn them of what happened, and head back home with them, I will."
	You two look at the pylon in silence for a while, then she slowly approaches the machine to pick it up, saying, "Supposed to head back home immediately, expedition ships were, if destroyed, one of the Punishers was. If followed those orders, he had... No guarantee of the split group's survival, he had. If back home, they went..."
	"He could have, but then the other group wouldn't know that any Punisher was destroyed. They wouldn't know to go back."
	"Seems like they didn't pick the best person to follow those orders."
	"We don't know if he could've made it if he had gone back immediately. I'm sure we'll find out more with the next pylon."
	She doesn't respond, instead looking down at the lines carving the clearing's ground. She moves close to one, laying down and reaching her arms to touch the cracks. A few minutes later, she gets back up and looks to you.
	"Back to the ship, we should go," she says. "Try and figure out where Mimodum went next, I will. Where he was to meet with the split group."
	After taking the trail back, Sedlitaris goes into her bunk to tinker with the pylons. She comes out hours after nightfall, asking that you show her your map. "A pincer movement, the two groups were performing. Difficult to know the exact planet, it is, as the data from the split group, we don't have, but figured the overall region where the two groups would link up, I think I have."
	You help her match the coordinates, and end up with a group of systems between Sol and Tarazed. "Need to visit each system, we might. Pick up faint signals of their next pylon, while in the right system I can, but no way of knowing where that is exactly, I have."
Sedlitaris has the pylon start searching for any matching signals as soon as you jump into the system. A few hours pass and the machine doesn't return any coordinates, but it also doesn't report a failure. Sedlitaris looks at it puzzled, and reboots it. "Fly around the system for a while, could you, Captain? Maybe compromising the signal, the ship's current position is." You do as she suggests, and slowly cruise around for a few more hours. Once again, the pylon doesn't give any answer. Sedlitaris says it might be some oddly specific bug, and asks that you just move on to the next system.
The pylon is quick to answer in this system, reporting no similar signals. Sedlitaris urges you to move to the next system, and goes back to checking the data.
Sedlitaris lets her pylon work for about an hour, but it returns no sign of any others in the system. "Passed by here, they might have, but a priority for recon, that world was not," she says as she points at Rand. You tell her you'll move on to the next system soon, and she goes back to working on the pylon.
The pylon searches for some time, but tells Sedlitaris no others are in the system. She sighs lightly, and asks you to move on to the next.
"If correct, my estimates were, the most likely meeting point, this should be," Sedlitaris says as you jump into the system. She lets the pylon work for a while, but it returns no signal of a similar device. "Well... either estimated wrong, I have, or issues in meeting here, the two groups had. Check the next system, we should."
After a couple of minutes, the pylon emits a few quiet whistles, and Sedlitaris celebrates briefly. "On that planet, it is! Glad that we managed to locate it, I am." You tell her you'll land on Hopper soon so you can search for the pylon on the planet.
Escape Route
Travel southwest of <system>, on a route to the Ablub system, so that Sedlitaris may look for a signal frequency of the expedition.
You fly around <origin> as Sedlitaris searches for the pylon's exact position, in the hopes that she can bring it back as well. She tells you to land by a mountain range, and has you readjust your landing spot every so often as she tries to nail the exact location of the pylon. "Buried it to protect it from the atmosphere's acidity, they must have," she comments.
	By the time she's done, you open your ship's hatch right to where the pylon should be and help her dig it out, taking care to not be out for too long. When the device is dug out, you bring it inside your ship while Sedlitaris fills up the hole with what dirt had been dug out.
	As you're flying to the spaceport, she plays the pylon's entry: "Log started. Made a route from Summit straight to the meeting point, I had, but find the split group, I could not. Restless, agitated, the crew has become, heading straight to Ablub, we are, after buried, this thing is. If find this, anyone from the split group is, head back-" at that point an untranslated shouting muffles what Mimodum was saying, followed by dozens of legs in a rush. "No..." is heard right before the recording ends.
	You focus on flying the ship, but even when you've landed, Sedlitaris remains silent.
	"He said they were going back immediately, but they never made it. You think that was the last pylon?"
	(Stay quiet).
	She goes without a word for a while still. "Set a route for Ablub, could you, Captain? If follow the same route they used, we do, and if any more to find, there is, pick up the signals, I will."
	You agree, and look to set a route straight to Ablub.
While Sedlitaris remained in her bunk since you left for Ablub, you can hear her shouting from her bunk as you enter the system. She comes running to you, bringing along the pylon. "Picked up a signal, it has!" She says, pointing at the machine's panel, where some message is repeatedly beeping in and out. "Land on that planet we must, Captain!" You tell her you'll land soon, and she remains with you to figure out the pylon's location on Harmony once you've landed.
You haven't yet found the sixth expedition's last pylon. Try searching for it on a route from this system to Ablub.
Expeditions Past
Head back to the <destination>, where Sedlitaris will report her findings to the Heliarch council.
Once you're close to the planet's surface, Sedlitaris starts trying to access the recorded data in the pylon. "If possible, recover it later, we can." She tries for a few minutes, but all she can get is a twisted static, so she starts working on determining its location. "Clear up the transmission, getting closer to it should."
	You fly around until you're right above an ocean, with no land in sight wherever you look. "Below us, it is," she says. "Why underwater? Why throw it into an ocean, would they?" She works on transferring the data to her own pylon, as you won't manage to get to the original one, and clears up the recording as much as possible before playing it.
	For a few seconds there are only a few ambient sounds, a low background humming, and some heavy breathing. "Ambushed us as we prepared to leave the last planet, they did," Mimodum speaks. "Enough fuel to make it back in one go, we had, so jumped as we could. Too many ships in this system there were, however, like a wall blocking us." He stops briefly, and you can make out something akin to metal falling lightly on a table. "Aware of it, they were. That exploring, we had been. That splitting up, we were. That make it back, we could not. Saw to that, dozens of their ships did. Tried to lose them on this planet, we had, but caught as we came down, we were. Cut off most of the engines, Skylance fire has. A lone, sinking ship, what remains of the sixth is. Hold together, the hull should, but no way out for us, there is." He pauses once again, for well over a minute. "If returned when the men first asked for... No, even then, already waiting, their ships must have been. If split up the fleet, I hadn't... outnumbered all the same, we would be. At least..." Another pause, this time just a few seconds long. "At least... still working, the rifles are."
	The recording ends, and you two stay in an awkward silence for a minute. "Aware that he had died, I was. Too long it has been. Even if found a safe haven, habitable planet or a friendly group, the fleet had, I knew that long dead, all of them would be." She pauses, and the silence returns for another minute. She shuts off the pylon. "Only, expecting something... anything, I was. A heroic death, a summary of findings. Accomplished nothing, they did. Right after all, the consuls were."
	"Heroic death or not, he still got some information, didn't he? Information you recovered."
	"He didn't get the chance to act heroically. He was ambushed."
	"Massacred, if truthful about the Quarg's numbers, he was," she responds. "Risked a great deal of jump drives, the sixth expedition had. Thought, it was, that with a greater number of Punishers, a greater chance of a safe return, there was." She sighs. "Just decrease our reserve of them, it did."
	"Inconclusive reports on red nebulas or disappearing ruins, what good are they?" she sighs. "After met up in their pincer movement, the groups had, after exploring points of interest, supposed to drive further than we had previously, they were. To reach the galactic core, to maybe find friendly groups to facilitate more trips... achieved, none of the goals were."
	She goes back to her bunk, saying she wishes to be alone for a while, and you fly to the planet's spaceport. A few hours later, she comes back out. "Finished my report, I have. Ready to go back home I am, Captain <last>. A long trip this was, and promised to pay you well, I did, so when <planet> we reach, give you your well-earned 10,000,000 credits, I shall. Present my findings to the council, I must."
	"That's a lot of money. I was worried you wouldn't even want to pay me, with how disappointed you were earlier."
	"Aren't you worried we'll get ambushed, like how Mimodum's ship was?"
	She grins for a moment, seemingly taking it as a joke. "If going to ambush us, the Quarg were, already done it, they would have. Too close to the Coalition by now, we are."
	"Ah, forgive me for that, Captain. True it is, that disappointed, I am. However, an inspector should not let that trouble her duties," she explains. "Done your work, you have, so now do mine, I must. Not discussed in Mimodum's audio entries, many details of interest to the council were. An initial gathering of that data, I have prepared."
	She asks that you bring her to <destination> as soon as possible, and goes back to her bunk to rest.
Sedlitaris uses your commlink to tell the spaceport authorities that she's returned, and soon after you land a crowd of Heliarchs and Coalition civilians alike are surrounding your ship. The Heliarch agents try and organize the crowd as best as they can, and a group of Heliarch consuls rush through the masses to meet you two at your ship.
	"Inspector! A most... fortunate return this is. A great deal of information you've collected, we take it?" an Arach consul asks.
	"Yes, eager to hear your report, we are," one of the Kimek consuls continues. "A rare occasion, it is, to be able to learn of the outside from one of our esteemed inspectors."
	A Saryd consul, who's kept a stern look on his face, cuts in. "Returned with his fleet, your ancestor, Mimodum, did not. Learned of the reason for that, have you?"
	"Yes," she says. "Recover as much information as I wished to, I could not, but prepared a report on what Captain <last> and I found, I have. Additionally, recovered two of the pylons Mimodum left, we have."
	One of the consuls addresses you, "Tell us, Captain, run into any er... complications during the trip, have you? Maybe occasioned by the tribune - the inspector - being with you?"
	"She stayed inside my ship whenever there was a risk of humans seeing her, if that's what you're asking."
	"I didn't notice anything out of the usual, no."
	They call for some agents to get the pylons out of your ship and transport them to somewhere Sedlitaris can present her findings. As they tell her to follow them to the room where the presentation will happen, a Kimek Heliarch breaks through the line of agents keeping the crowd back. You recognize him as Arbiter Kicharri, who you met just before Sedlitaris received approval from the Heliarch council.
	"What is this?" The Saryd consul steps in front of Kicharri as he approaches. "Arbiter, shared with you in due time, the findings will be, but the inspector's report to us consuls, the priority is, so return to your duties you-"
	"No, meet with her family, she will," Kicharri interrupts him. "Heard nothing but hell from her brother, I have. Devastated, her parents were. Now that returned, she has, see them and calm their worries, she will."
	"By whose orders?" An Arach consul jumps in. "Intrigued by her findings, we all are, and listen to her at once, we must."
	"Orders?" Kicharri exclaims. "Orders for her to leave and die, you thought you had given her!" Kicharri looks at Sedlitaris, then back at the consuls. "If so intrigued you are, surely to miss out on any information, you don't want. Best suited for giving a full report, she will be, once rested from her expedition, she has."
	Irked by his response, the consuls have the agents clear the area and have your ship made into a makeshift meeting room for a while, making everyone get out while they head inside to discuss. After many minutes, they come back out, and one of the Kimek says, "Ten days of leave you will be given, tribune. After that, present us your findings, you must. Considered for promotion to arbiter, you also will be, for your bravery and work in the expedition."
	The consul group leaves, and Kicharri approaches you and Sedlitaris. "Tell me about how you were right all along, later, you can," Kicharri tells Sedlitaris. "Right now, add you back to the list of active Heliarchs, I must. Marked as deceased by a 'glitch in the system,' you apparently were." He taps one leg on the ground repeatedly, glancing at your ship. "Glad that you are back safely, I am."
	He leaves as well, and Sedlitaris turns to you. "A bit disorganized, but at least welcomed we were, right?" She looks at your ship, then looks startled. "Your payment! No time to transfer the funds to you, they gave me," she pulls out a personal device, and transfers the 10,000,000 credits to your account. "There you are. Worth much more, your assistance was, but unfortunately limited, my funds are."
	"Don't worry, I'm glad to have helped."
	"Why was everyone so surprised we made it back? Seems they expected to never see you again."
	Her smile drops as you ask the question, and she seemingly struggles to find a place to look at. "I... I, Captain-" She looks around, then takes a deep breath. "Sorry I am, Captain. Ever since independence from the Quarg, we gained, six expeditions out of the Coalition, there were. Return, only ships of the first of them did. The most well equipped and numerous, my ancestor's fleet was, the sixth expeditionary fleet. Increasingly more fearful of leaving, we became, and with the last expedition having been centuries ago, a taboo, even talking about leaving has become. A year after the sixth had left, effectively forbid any further expeditions, the council did." She travels around with her eyes again. "Sorry I am, that kept it hidden from you, I have. Wish to find out what happened, I did. Afraid I was, that refuse to help me like everyone else, you would, if know of the risk, you did."
	"Well, we made it back safely, and you were passionate enough about this to take the risk. I don't hold it against you."
	"So you lied to me. You could've gotten us both killed - we could be in a ship sinking into an ocean."
	She's taken aback. "Captain, no Quarg pursuing us, there were. Surely now that inhabit all those systems, humans do, avoid attacking ships like that..." She stops, and sighs. "Sorry for lying to you I am, Captain."
	She breathes in relief. "Thank you, Captain. To trick you, my intention wasn't. Thanks to your help, maybe put an end to this fear of leaving, or even convince the council to get the expedition efforts going again, I can."
	Suddenly, a Saryd Sojourner nearly rams your ship, just barely avoiding it as it lands less than twenty meters from your ship. "My little brother," Sedlitaris says as she looks at the ship. "Forgive me Captain, but get to seeing my family, I must. From the discussion earlier, very worried about me, they must have been. Thanks again for everything." Her brother rushes into hugging her as he leaves his ship, then proceeds to shake her while screaming something. An elderly Saryd couple slowly comes out of the Sojourner as well, and Sedlitaris and her brother go and meet them, hugging and going inside. The Sojourner takes off before the spaceport workers can even begin tending to the ship, and you look at it as it leaves the ringworld.
	When you go back inside your ship, you're notified that more credits have been transferred to your account. It seems to be from the Heliarch government, giving you an extra 25,000,000 credits and thanking you for helping recover the data of the sixth expedition.
	When you go back inside your ship, you're notified that more credits have been transferred to your account. It seems to be from the Heliarch government, giving you an extra 25,000,000 credits and thanking you for helping recover the data of the sixth expedition. You decide to take some time to rest in your ship, after all that's happened, but not an hour passes before your ship is hailed by the local authorities, asking you to please open your hatch.
	You comply, and one of the Heliarch consuls from earlier, a Saryd, comes in. "Hello, Captain," he greets you with a somewhat shaky voice. "Just going over the findings, we were..." he struggles at finding words, eyes fixated on the ground. "Caught our attention the most, the report on Ancient Light has. The report about the 'Sheragi' and the ruins on a nearby world." He pauses, and pulls out a device similar to the one Sedlitaris used to transfer you your payment. "Finished the journey of ancient Saryd inspectors, humanity's efforts, your efforts, have. For that, hope to compensate you and the girl enough, the council cannot." He inputs a few commands, and you look to see you've received another 15,000,000 credits. "Sent her to die, we had. I had. And with answers to secrets our ancestors dreamed of unveiling, she returned." His eyes finally come up, meeting yours. "Glad I am, that proud of at least one of us, they can be." He looks away again, gives you a nod, and leaves your ship.
Long Lost Property
Head to the <system> system to recover House Idriss' satellite, or try to learn what happened to it, if it isn't there.
You notice a pair of Arachi, who you assume to be spaceport workers due to their uniforms, talking while pointing to your ship. One of them is slightly shorter than most Arach you've seen, while the other is a good bit taller. They approach you after they see you noticed them, and the larger of them speaks up. "Excuse us you must, Captain, but in need of your help, we are."
	"Work at House Idriss, we do, and looking to recover some lost property, the House is," the shorter one explains. "Accompany us to our headquarters, could you? Meet up with you, our boss-"
	"President," the other one interrupts him.
	"Our president will."
	"I've got some time. Lead the way."
	"What is it that you lost?"
	"Umm... confidential information, that is," the taller one says. "If wish to learn more, you do, accompany us, you should."
	"Alright then, show me the way."
	"This seems a bit shady. I'll pass."
	They bring you to a dead end street not far from the spaceport surrounded by various older buildings. A wide hole is at the end, almost like a subway entrance, with stairs leading dozens of meters underground. You follow them down the stairs to find something similar to a customs area, where some Arachi and Kimek in uniforms ready their stations once they see you three.
	You continue after some waiting, as the operators insist on manually inspecting every last bit of your electronic devices. Inside, you see a few dozen workers at their computers, with one occasionally heading to the back and taking an elevator somewhere. They seldom talk, so the only sound you can make out is that of some machinery working below you. Eventually, you're greeted by an Arach in some manner of tuxedo, or at least their equivalent to one, a blueish fabric dotted with black buttons. "Ah, Captain <last>, you must be!" she greets you. "To our corporate headquarters, I welcome you."
	She urges you to follow her to her office, and you go along with the two Arachi who guided you here. Once you're in the office, a modest, spacious room made to accommodate the Arachi, she introduces herself. "Flopug, you may call me. Acting president of House Idriss, I am. Now, told about what we need your services for, were you?"
	"These two told me House Idriss lost something."
	"No, not really."
	"Nearly nine thousand years ago, before even formed, the Coalition was, launched a... probe of sorts, for a long term experiment, that time's House Idriss had," she explains. "Sent to a nearby system where a habitable planet could be, it was, accelerating to approximately half the speed of light." She taps somewhere on the desk with one of her legs, and a screen appears at the top, showing a map of the local star systems. "Recognize this one, do you?" she asks, pointing to one of the systems. "A system currently inhabited by humans, we believe it is. Arrive there, the probe soon should, if arrived already, it hasn't."
	Upon further inspection, you piece together the systems in the screen, and realize the system she's pointing to is <system>, just one jump away.
	"I haven't heard news of any probes entering Han."
	"So what do you want me to do?"
	"No? Well, the destination for the probe, that system was. Hmm... maybe delaying itself for some extra data..." She goes quiet, lost in thought for a while.
	"Need someone to retrieve the probe, we do. Designed, it was, with an artificial intelligence that would learn during the trip, so even if terribly outdated, the equipment is, possibly invaluable, the data it gathered by observing starlight could be. Or simply mildly amusing, but hoping for the former, we are."
	"Alright, I'll go look for it."
	"What if I can't find it in the system? If it hasn't arrived, would I need to wait a long time for it to get there?"
	"What's in it for me?"
	"Pay you handsomely for the retrieval, House Idriss would," she answers. "Also, if of any use, the data is, adapted to deep space, the artificial intelligence may have done. New technologies, this could provide us, and to you we would share such a prize."
	"Not too long," the short Arach answers. "Minor changes in its speed, the probe might have had, but delay its arrival for more than a few weeks, it could not. One week from now, the absolute limit date for its arrival is."
	"If locate it immediately, you do not, maybe ask the local humans you could," the taller one adds. "Newsworthy in most systems, such an event would be."
	They show you an image of the probe, which looks pretty much like an ordinary satellite, and say they'll work on your ship's scanning system to pick up the object's signature easier. Flopug says goodbye and tells you she must continue working, but has the two Arachi bring you back to your ship and adjust your scanners. They wish you good luck once they're done, and leave your ship.
You let your scanners work for a few minutes, but they don't manage to locate House Idriss' probe. It might not yet have arrived in the system, but it would be best to look for information on Darkstone.
Lost and Found
Head to <planet>, base of the pirate who scavenged House Idriss' probe, and try to get it back from him.
After looking up the recent local news, you feel relieved as you won't need to wait for the probe to arrive: average headlines like "Unidentified Object Enters Han" or more sensationalist ones like "Doomsday Drone! What YOU Can Do In the Face of Impending Doom" were all the rage a few weeks ago, when the probe first arrived. None of them detail what happened to it, though, so you decide to ask the planet's inhabitants.
	The spaceport workers you ask don't seem to know much more than the fact that it entered the system weeks ago, and some of the locals seem to have believed the more dramatic headlines, getting worried when you bring it up. When you reach the local produce market, one of the farmers you ask sheds some light on the issue. "A band of pirates passed by here just a few days after I watched the news about that machine. They were here for the usual, getting food from us as tribute. Must've read the news while they were here. One of them asked me about it, if we had seen it do anything dangerous. I said no, and he muttered something about selling it in a junkyard."
	"Did you catch his name?"
	"Do you know where he went to sell it?"
	"No, but I'd guess <planet>. It's the biggest hub for their kind of activity around these parts."
	He snickers lightly, shaking his head. "I don't keep a list of their names. It's rare enough that any of them come around more than once, most get blown out of the sky before they get the chance. It's a short life they lead, those gangs from <planet>."
	You thank him for the information, and decide to head to <destination> to see if you can find the pirate who scavenged the probe, or the junkyard he sold it to.
Reclaim the Probe
Search around pirate systems outside the South, and find the fleet that stole the probe. When you find it, bring it back to <destination>.
When you ask one of the market organizers about a local pirate returning with an alien probe, you find out he already sold it. You are then pointed to a large, surprisingly well-kept junkyard, which is something of a miniature shipyard: a few crews work on their ships in the vicinity, adding or switching parts for those they just bought. The junkyard itself is surrounded by half a dozen concrete buildings, with defensive turrets on top. A few excavators and bulldozers move ship pieces and other components around, trying to keep everything organized.
	You tell one of the workers you're looking for the probe, and they leave for a few minutes, heading inside the gray building by the entrance.
	They come back alone, saying, "Boss has looked you up, and found your pockets a bit empty. If you want that kind of information, come back when you're ready to pay."
	When they come back, they beckon you to go inside, bringing you to a simple office where a middle-aged, balding man is waiting. "So, I hear you're looking for my latest big acquisition? Mind telling me what has you so interested in it?"
	"I was hired to get it for someone."
	"No reason."
	He grins. "Well, you're out of luck, it was sold the day after I got it. Damn shame I couldn't make more advertisement out of it, but the offer was too good." He gets up from his chair, and leans on the table, looking at you. "Now, I like to keep business organized around here, so of course, I know a thing or two about who the buyers were. I can't just tell you, though, I deal with dangerous people at times. One day I tell you where they are, the other there's a fleet ready to tear down my business here. If I had, say, a million credits to hire some helpers in case that happened..."
	"When I'm done they won't have a fleet to come here. A hundred thousand should be enough of a tip for pointing me their way."
	"Fine, just tell me already."
	He stares at you for a few seconds, and lets out a laugh. "Well, it was worth a try. Alright, a hundred thousand it is."
	"Now I can't just trust you to get every last one of their ships, can I?" he replies. "If you want to make it worth for me, it's a million. If you're not interested, there's nothing I can do about it."
	"Thank you for your patronage," he says, and sits back down.
	"The men who approached me for the machine are pirates, though I imagine you already had that figured out," he begins. "They aren't from the south though, I could tell you that much. Older, better dressed. Said they had read the reports about the 'unknown probe' entering Han, and wanted it for their business. I asked how they intended to use it, nobody here had figured how it worked, but they said they'd find a way to make use of it, have it serve as some kind of surveillance equipment, or something like that."
	"What do you think they meant by that?"
	"Did you catch their names?"
	"Did they tell me their names? Yes. Their real ones? Doubt it. They seemed organized enough that they wanted to keep that information hidden. I did get a look at their ships while we were loading the product into one of them, though."
	He shrugs, "My guess is their base is behind some bottleneck, so they wanted something that could tell them in advance if any Navy or bounty hunter was coming for them. I did get to look at their ships, seemed very well equipped for running away, if they knew someone was coming."
	He tells you the ship the probe was loaded onto was a Quicksilver, heavily modified to make for a stronger warship. You walk out of the junkyard with the information, and prepare your ship to look for the pirates.
Entering the system, your scanners catch a trio of heavily modified Quicksilvers. They also inform you that the probe is in the system, though it fails at giving you its exact location, as if something is causing interference. The Quicksilvers notice you and ready their guns.
The pirates are waiting for you when you board their Quicksilver, and you exchange shots for a while. Once you've cleared the entrance, you explore the ship, and find what should be the probe - it matches what you were shown by House Idriss' workers, if with a lot of extra wiring wrapped around it. The pirates must have tinkered with it in attempts to use it as a warning system about incoming fleets. You remove the wires, free the probe from its attachments to the ship, and let it loose into the void. You then hurry back to your ship, and catch the drifting probe into your hold. Now you need only bring it back to House Idriss.
After you land, you head to the underground base of House Idriss, where Flopug meets with you again. "Arrange for the probe to be brought here at once, I will," she says, dispatching some workers to where your ship is. After a few minutes, she is informed that it's secured in the "lower levels," and heads there herself to take a look at what data it gathered.
	When she returns, followed by the Arach duo who brought you here the first time, she hands you <payment>. "Registers of some attempts at breaching the probe's security, there are, but compromised the data, thankfully none of them have. A most curious path, its AI took," she says. "As fine-tuned as our current systems, it is not, but developed its algorithms to better determine the current status of distant stars, it has. Still going over the data, we are, so how accurate it became, we don't yet know."
	The other Arachi tell you they'll meet you in the spaceport once they finish checking the data, as they'd like you to check a system personally in order to compare it with what the probe's information. They accompany you to the staircase leading back to the street, then head back to continue analyzing the data.
You fight you way through the ship, but after you search the cargo hold and outfits in the Quicksilver, you realize the probe must be in another ship.
After walking in the oddly empty vessel for a while, you hear an alarm sound and see pirates rushing to you from a door they blast open. You head back to your ship, avoiding what shots come your way as best as you can, and quickly close off the entrance on your side. When you look at the Quicksilver again, you see its self-destruction sequence is starting.
Comparing Binaries
Head to <waypoints> to gather data on the binary stars, so that House Idriss may compare it with their probe's own predictions.
The Arach duo greet you in the spaceport and ask you to bring them inside your ship to talk. They look to the sides and behind them every other moment, as if watching out for something. When you're inside your ship's command room, the taller one speaks. "Compared the probe's prediction with its last reading of the system of arrival, we have. A very good approximation to real conditions, it reached. Though incredibly outdated, its hardware is, an ingenious program, what my ancestors-"
	"Our ancestors," the short one interrupts him.
	"What our ancestors created is."
	They show you a device with a map on screen, depicting nearby star systems, and the short Arach starts explaining. "Intrigued as to just how accurate its predictions have become, we are, so to verify its data about a star deeper in human space, the next step is." He points to a system at the edge of the map. "Have humans discovered this system, Captain? Interested in comparing the probe's data on far away binary stars, the president is."
	You look at the screen and at your own map for a moment, and recognize the system as <waypoints>. "Settled it is, then. Head to that system, you should," the taller one speaks again. "Still with our adjustments, your scanners are, so just tinker them a bit to gather the needed data, we will."
	Once they're done with your scanners a few minutes later, they leave your ship and wish you good luck.
One of your monitors brings up various sets of data written in the Arach language when you enter the system, and your scanners begin gathering the data House Idriss wants. A few minutes pass until a loading bar comes up. When it reaches the end, another one appears, and the process repeats a few more times. After about an hour, your monitor goes back to normal.
Flopug is waiting by the landing bays for you, with the Arach duo beside her. They come inside your ship when you've landed, and start checking the data, after Flopug pays you <payment>.
	"Umm... more errors with this one, the probe committed," the taller Arach says. "Gotten a good deal right, it still did, but a shame it is, that deal with that much more of a distance, it couldn't."
	"Not distance, the cause of errors was," the short Arach responds. "Confused with the binaries' signatures, it got. Refined to account for binary star systems and their oddities, its algorithms had to be."
	"At any rate, happy to call the probe's voyage a success, I am," Flopug cuts them off. "Expected it to have developed this well, we hadn't, when notified of its existence by... I mean, when remember about the approaching date of its arrival to that system, we did."
	They turn your scanners back to normal, telling you that they'll work on using the data to develop a new piece of scanning equipment. They also tell you that they will let you know about it when it's ready, the next time you're on <origin>, though it may be many months before they're ready. After thanking you for your help once again, the three Arachi leave your ship.
When you leave your ship, you're greeted by Flopug of House Idriss. "Completed the work on our newest set of scanners, we have. Since helped us with recovering the probe and its data, you have, only fair, it is, that gifted a copy of the equipment, you are."
	She asks to come in your ship, and tells you to take off, guiding you to a factory complex on another region of the planet. As the <ship> touches down on the hangar, the platform loudly moves gears and chains, and soon starts bringing the ship, and you, deep down into the facility, with hangar doors closing above you shortly. When the elevator stops, you and Flopug step out into what's something of a mix between a Coalition outfitter, and House Idriss' headquarters. Several Arachi work on their stations, most of them tending to a large amalgam of antennae dishes and sensors. "Our gift to you, that is," Flopug says as she signals to the Arachi to start installing the scanner into your ship. "The Outskirts Gauger, we've named it."
	While the Arachi work on the outfit, she explains that they used the probe's algorithms to have the scanners excel at finding basic energy signatures, such as heat or energy levels of other ships. "Made to check for complex machinery like outfits, or recognize specific cargo types, it was not, but still find uses for its current form, I'm sure you will."
	When everything's ready, you two head back inside your ship, and the elevator brings you back up. You fly back to the main landing area, and she pulls close to you just before you open your hatch. "Now, still... experimental, the outfit is, and provide the Heliarchs with a potentially faulty product, we do not wish. So, naturally, not yet registered it with them, we have. Provide you with more copies, we cannot, so careful not to lose this one, you should be." She thanks you again for helping out, and leaves for her workplace.
Your ship has barely touched down in the <origin> when several dozen Heliarch warships of all sizes start landing around it. The local garrison wastes no time in hailing you. "Captain <last>, our esteemed friend. Noticed it was that in your possession an extra jump drive is. Aid us tremendously any extra copies would, so if willing to sell your spare to us you are, thank you with <payment> we will." Many Heliarchs leave their ships, staring at the <ship> as they eagerly wait for your decision.
	(Accept the deal.)
	(No, you're not interested.)
	"Regrettable that is," the Heliarch voice hailing you says with great disappointment. "If ever change your mind you do, prepared, a special job request will be, for when a spare jump drive you bring. Recommend it we do that our offer you carefully consider, Captain. Very generous in rewarding you for any and all copies you bring us, we would be."
	They thank you profusely, and as if collectively told about the decision in an instant, all the Heliarch personnel stop gawking, and make space for an army of engineers to come and remove the spare jump drive from your ship. Still watching the scene, only now in formations, the Heliarch agents whisper among themselves, rarely shifting their eyes, as if looking at a spectacle.
	Once the drive is out of your ship, it is secured in an excessively reinforced container and transported to a restricted section of the ring, under the guard of hundreds of armed soldiers. One of the Heliarchs who seem to be in charge of the procedure, an Arach, personally comes to you, thanking you again and handing you <payment>. "Honor us you do with such generosity, Captain. Though made great progress in studying jump drives and their mechanisms, we have, still incapable of creating our own, we are, and means of acquiring new copies we have not. Tremendously valuable, each and every drive you could bring us is, so prepare special job requests for them, I will. If interested in selling any more jump drives, you are, check the job boards in the rings, from now on you should."
Heliarch broadcast
A sizable crowd is watching one of the monitors in the spaceport where an interviewer is speaking to a Heliarch agent. You learn from someone in the crowd that the agent was a professional athlete until recently.
A news broadcast shows footage of many Heliarch agents arresting a group of terrorists. The Heliarch who was supervising the operation is later interviewed, explaining that the now prisoners were found to have stolen government equipment.
The news show a Heliarch consul giving a short speech in a ship launching ceremony. After they finish, the brand new Heliarch warships are shown heading to their first patrol.
A short film plays on a monitor during a commercial break. A young Saryd walks in a forest, looking to his sides every few seconds to take in the view. Eventually he turns to see another Saryd, both surprised. As he approaches her and the two start talking, the camera pans out to a rising sun over the forest.
A local screen shows a stressed Saryd working at a computer late at night. The door creaks, and she looks back to find her children peeking. She puts them to sleep and then goes to bed herself. After waking up, she finds nobody around the house. She goes outside, seeing the children, along with their father, admiring the sun rising.
After a government broadcast, a timelapse plays on a spaceport monitor, showcasing Ring of Friendship gaining more and more solar panels on its exterior over the centuries.
During a break, a recruitment advertisement plays. A recruit of each species is shown putting on their brand new uniforms, then training on some sort of obstacle track, and then the view switches to troops marching in unison in the Academy of Cadets of Belug's Plunge.
Longcow rancher
"Caring for longcows, hard work it is. Too much space they take up. Too many legs."
"Never been around an angry longcow, have you? Word of advice, avoid their sides you should."
"Stopped using vaccines on longcows, long ago we did. Remember which leg to apply them on, we never could."
"Wish understand my jokes, my beauties could. Many kicks out of them, they would get."
"Fresh steak here! First leg steak, second leg steak... a discount for tenth leg steak there is!"
You see a rancher walk out of a shop with a trolley full of bells. You wonder if they are for multiple longcows, or just a particularly long one.
Kimek farmer
"When starting out on this business, I was, lost in the farm I got. Tricky to tell where you are, it is, when green is all you see."
"A Heliarch agent, I once was. Too stressful, it was for me, so this job I took. Messages from colleagues, I still get, but if see the fruits I plant here, they could, definitely join me, they would."
"Some fresh produce would you like, Captain? If purchase these, you do, teach you a family recipe I could. I'm sure that love it, a human would. Probably."
After noticing you looking at the produce, the farmer asks if you would like some free samples, before grabbing an entire box with various fruits and vegetables and handing it to you.
Dozens of farmers in different stands call out to you as you walk by the spaceport, asking you to take a look at the special prices of today's "food expo." You later look into it, and turns out yesterday there also was an expo, as well as the day before that. Tomorrow's starts the moment today's ends.
Heliarch agent
"Protect and serve."
"If any assistance you need, at your disposal I am."
"If any trouble you find, report it to us you must."
"Saryd, Kimek, Arach, human, no matter what species, to protect all of our citizens, committed we are."
"Enjoy my post well enough, I do, but still to get a break during the Coalition Games to watch them, I am."
"Part of a Punisher crew, I am. Land, refuel, rest, and back to working on that magnificent ship, I do!"
"Offered the position of magister, I actually have been. Only, not interested in that governing activity, I am."
"Apologies, but make haste I must. Gone missing some garrison guns have, and back to cleaning Stalker engines I will be, if find them I don't!"
"Difficult sometimes it is, to be a mediator. If careful with my words I am not, a Saryd might think an Arach talking about longcows has insulted their mother."
An agent is trying to calm down a small crowd outside a local bar. After some minutes, the more agitated drunkards are convinced to accompany the agent to a nearby Heliarch office.
A pair of agents passes by you. Most of the spaceport crowd gives them a wide berth.
"A pilot, I once was. Learned from an older sibling, I did."
Heliarch candidate
"Laws, history, theory, too much of it I have read, and still behind I am..."
"As part of my trials, read the works of consul Elirom, I had to. Exceeded my expectations, his books have."
"Meant to prove our dedication and show our potential, the trials we candidates go through are. Though difficult, we're sure to be apt to serve once passed, we have."
Advertisement
You see a commercial where a Saryd sits down after a workout, and as the camera spins, it switches to a Kimek studying, and then to an Arach watching sports while cheering. It seems to be an ad for a brand of foldable chairs.
A commercial for House Debdo plays on a local monitor, with various scenes of tourist spots being accompanied by an upbeat, serene jingle.
An ad shows various graphs of what you guess are stock values. An Arach leg swipes the view, and the graphs begin fluctuating a lot more to one side. At the end, the logo of House Plumtab flashes on the screen.
An ad for an energy drink is on display on a local shop. A Kimek is down on the ground in the middle of the streets, struggling to move, as a crowd gathers around them. When they get the drink, they jump up and bolt past the crowd, and then proceed to climb up a skyscraper. At the end a disclaimer advises against Saryds consuming the drink.
Arach tourist
"Ever since another child I had, extended my vacation period and increased my holiday pay, the government has."
"Much better than I expected, the food here is. Still, beat longcow steak, nothing here does."
"That the streets here were too narrow for us Arachi, I had heard, but no problem so far I've had."
Kimek tourist
"Come here with a caravan, I have. Cheaper it was, but stick together we must, and too tight the schedule they set up is. Barely appreciate the sights, I can!"
"Asked me to bring them some gifts from my trip, my family has, but fit them all in my luggage I cannot, and only half of the gifts purchased I have!"
"From an arcology I am, so to me twice the vacation, a trip to a planet without them is."
Saryd tourist
"From far away I've come, and for weeks sleeping in a ship I was. My first time traveling to another planet, it is, so not used to being so far from nature, I was. No idea how other Saryds make it as pilots, I have."
"Truly breathtaking, the sights of this world are. The cuisine, too, greatly enjoyed I have. If only the locals had a more civil sense of attire."
"Climb up walls, the denizens of this world can. Otherworldly it is, to see them do so in the distinct architecture of some buildings here."
"Pardon me, but providing me with a blood sample, would you mind? Interested in how the human immune system differs from our own, I am."
"To Ring of Wisdom I frequently travel. Held there, many great conferences are."
"Move to Ring of Wisdom, I wish to. So many advanced facilities for testing it has, so much easier to get a hold of complex chemicals..."
"A Saryd Traveler I recently purchased. Not much of a pilot I am, but being a science vessel, adequate facilities the model still has. More importantly, no rude neighbors to interrupt my team's research, a spaceship has."
A Saryd engrossed in a tablet displayed strange characters almost walks into you. "Excuse me," they mutter before continuing on their way.
"A lecture in nanotechnology, I am here to present. Unclear on whether I would be teaching faculty or students, the invitation was."
"Earned a degree in xenobiology, I did some time ago. Under a top researcher in the field, I work now."
"Seems that interesting findings, the research on yottrite has yielded. Proud of having helped us learn more, you should be."
"Now that more information on yottrite we have, wonder if House Ablomab will ask for samples to experiment on, I do."
"Kill for the papers on the yottrite research, I would, but still confidential the information is."
Ringworld engineer
Ringworld worker
Construction supervisor
Solar panel engineer
Solar panel welder
Maintenance worker
"Just arrived here, I have. So glad that finally accepted for this job, I was!"
"Food, lodging, an important job with a good pay, and a wonderful view. Ask for, what more could I?"
"The means to finish construction of the two remaining rings, we still don't have, but one day, complete they shall be."
"Wholly safe, our Coalition is, but here, even safer I feel. What is there to fear, when in an indestructible station you are?"
"Still researching the alloys that make up the rings, our top scientists are, so only adding supplementary solar panels, we are."
A small section of the area is roped off. An Arach has removed a floor panel and is busy reconfiguring circuitry below.
"Friend, please step aside." A Kimek gestures to a large cart filled with tools and equipment, and you move to let them pass.
Spaceport worker
"Since with captains of other species, we deal, translation boxes, we are issued. Simple tools for us, but too expensive for many to purchase, they are, so to enjoy the opportunity to use them, we try."
"Three different styles of ships, we deal with daily, so never on autopilot we can be, or else refuel one incorrectly, we might."
"Inspect every crate before it is put on a ship, the Heliarchs do. A tedious process, it is."
Saryd captain
Kimek captain
Arach captain
Saryd pilot
Kimek pilot
Arach pilot
"Enough money for my first ship, I didn't have, so split the cost of a Runabout, me and an online friend did. Picked another ship, we should have, because too difficult flying alone to their planet, it was."
"Enough money for my first ship, I didn't have, so a loan from House Plumtab, I took. Read the interest rates a bit better, I should have..."
"On a Hulk, my first job in a spaceship was. Thought falling apart it was, I had, when to a Spindle it switched."
"Liked my ship so much, a Kimek passenger did, that decided to live in it, they have. For 'transport' they still pay, so mind it I do not."
"Jealous of you, I am. If a jump drive I had, bypass the gap between Saryd and Arach space, I could, and quickly earn a fortune, I would."
"Agreed to transport some Saryd graduates for a 'field trip,' I once did. Almost arrested, I was."
The spacefarer is assisting the rest of their crew in unloading cargo from a ship.
"Used to fly with me, my brother did, but now become a Heliarch, he has."
Local Arach
"Arrested close to where my cousins work, the terrorists on the news were. Notice anything wrong with them, they never did."
"Always rising, the sun in these broadcasts is, but a night shift I work, so see it for myself, I never can..."
"To Ring of Wisdom, a researcher friend of mine has gone. Always there, our wisest mingle, but remain here, few do. Difficult for us, sometimes it is."
"Always mixing up our Houses, Kimek and Saryd tourists are. Mind it, I do not, but angry, sometimes my friends get."
"Learnt my language, some Kimek friends have, but so fast they speak, that difficult to understand them, it is."
Local Kimek
"Tired of dealing with faulty translation boxes, my sister got, so learning to speak Arachi, she is."
"Much more reserved than us, the Saryds are. So long do they live for, that difficult to understand their habits, it can be."
Local Saryd
"Troubling it is, when their children, Kimek and Arach tourists bring. Climb up everywhere, they try."
"Travel to new places, I used to, but infinite, our planets are not, so seen them all by now I have."
"Purchase some Saryd cakes, would you like to? Homemade, they are."
"Interested in this tapestry, are you? Of the finest longcow hide, it is made. A special discount, for you I could make."
"Interested in these ringworld keychains, are you? For you, only 30 credits!"
"Caught your eye, this necklace has? Real hedgelion quills, these are. Great luck, they bring, for those generous enough to make a purchase."
"Arcology miniatures? Arachi armor replicas? Multipurpose gardening tools? For all of those and more, the best prices I have!"
Passerby
Local vendor
"Heard, I have, that come back from the outside, that Heliarch tribune did. Very lucky, she must be."
"Heard, I have, that come back from the outside, that Heliarch girl did. If you ask me, a lie that she ever left, it is."
"Seen the news, have you? Returned from the outside, a Saryd Heliarch has! Wonder how bad it was out there, I do."
"The one that helped that Heliarch inspector in her expedition, you are. A very strong ship, you must have, if made it back, you two did."
"Helped that Heliarch inspector come back from the outside, you have. Always thought that impossible, I did."
"Promoted to the rank of arbiter after her expedition, that Saryd inspector was. Very impressed by her findings on the outside, the consuls must have been."
"Promoted to the rank of arbiter after her 'expedition,' that Saryd girl was, but what proof of her actually leaving do we have? Stupid enough to have tried that, nobody is."
"Though a success, that Saryd inspector's expedition was, turned many of the consuls furious at one another, her return has. Expected her to make it back, many of them had not."
"Our thanks for helping inspector Sedlitaris, you have. Finally found their way back, the last expedition's reports have."
"The one who helped inspector Sedlitaris on her expedition you are, correct? Read her report on it, I have. Disconcerting, the fate of the last expedition is, but at least recovered their findings, we now have."
Coalition Games broadcast
A Saryd game is playing on a monitor nearby. The athletes, separated into two teams, gallop around an uneven field, dotted with small mounds and holes, as they try to whack some balls into nets located around the arena's edges. Your best guess is that it's an awfully convoluted mix of cricket, football, and pool.
A crowd has gathered for the transmission, waiting for some kind of race or marathon to start. The camera pans by the competitors, who are all Kimek, then pulls back as the race begins. You judge it to be a pretty standard race initially, until the camera spins around, and it's made clear that the Kimek are running upside down.
Some Arachi attentively wait for a game to start. The screen shows the competitors, who are also Arachi, putting on various layers of plate armor. They then all move to a metal cable, just thick enough for them to be gripped with all legs. They then stay there. For many minutes. Until they start falling one by one. Exhilarating.
During a break from the games, some analysts go over spreadsheets with the statistics for the competitors of the past few games. You can't read any of it, but passerby workers and captains stay a while to glance at the results.
One of the competitors from the last game, still catching their breath from the event, is giving an interview and gulping down water every time the interviewer talks. Given their excitement, you figure they must've performed very well.
"Going to see the Coalition Games, I am. Our biggest yearly event, it is."
"Competing in the Coalition Games this year, a friend of mine is. Cheering for them, my whole family is."
"Seen the latest transmission of the Coalition Games, have you? Throughout it all, on the edge I was!"
"Checked the job board lately, have you? Eager to see the Coalition Games, tons of passengers are. A good season for business, this is."
"Watching the Coalition Games transmissions lately, I have been. Tried to become an athlete myself, I once did, but too rigorous, their training routine is! Made me appreciate the sports more, it has."
"Just arrived from my first live viewing of the Coalition Games, I have. An incredible experience, it was. Go again next year, I for sure will!"
Dozens of Heliarch agents are guarding the spaceport entrances, occasionally blocking passage as they try to control the flow of people to and from the Coalition Games events.
You spot a few agents on their lunch break inside a local restaurant. They seem to be enjoying the Coalition Games broadcast more than the meals themselves.
"Heading to the Coalition Games, are you? If so, forgive us you must. Some trouble with organizing the crowds this morning, there was, so delayed by five minutes, the whole line is."
"A former athlete myself, I am. Earned my rank by winning in the Games, I did, so always eager to help organize the event, I am."
An avid fan rushes out of a ship next to yours, and into the lines of people being admitted into the Coalition Games. For the next many minutes, an increasingly larger number of Heliarch agents attempt to explain they're not allowed to bring in so many sports goods with them.
You see a fan angrily stomping to a ship docked nearby, going inside, then coming back out with a coin of sorts. It seems they forgot the entry ticket for the Games, and will have to wait in line all over again.
"Brought my children to see the Games, I have. An important part of our culture, the Games are, so glad to share the experience with them, I am."
"Brought my children to see the Games, I have. Hope I do, that behave themselves this time, they will..."
"Here for the Games too, are you? The largest event in all the Coalition, it is. Come here to watch every year, I do!"
"Come to watch a relative of mine compete, I have. Training hard for many years, they have been, so sure I am that do well, they will."
Coalition Games crowds
The lines of people heading to the Coalition Games seem to have stopped moving abruptly. Upon further investigation, you see some young Kimek have fallen on their backs and are being helped back to their feet one by one by both Heliarch agents and others from the crowd.
This is a particularly crowded part of the spaceport today. The lines of people waiting for admission into the Games have started crossing and looping in on themselves. Some even head inside shops and restaurants while others stretch into docking areas. Battalions of Heliarch agents work as hard as they can to bring everyone back into orderly lines.
Several children coming to see the Coalition Games are running and playing simplified versions of the events, sporting different colors and assets for different games. Their parents struggle to get them to settle down while keeping their spots in the waiting lines.
Wanderer workers to <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer workers require transportation to <destination>. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
Wanderer farmers to <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer farmers require transportation to <destination>. They will pay you <payment> to take them there.
Wanderer younglings to <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer younglings are looking for transport to <destination> to learn more about the Wanderer terraforming process. The adult with them will pay you <payment>.
The younglings depart your ship and meet up with another group of Wanderers across the spaceport. Before following after the younglings, the adult Wanderer thanks you and hands you <payment>.
Spike in pollution on <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer scientists wish to get to <destination> with their <cargo> by <date> to investigate a strange spike in atmospheric pollutants. Payment will be <payment>.
You wish the scientists the best of luck on <planet> as they carry their scientific equipment off of your ship and hand you your payment of <payment>.
Natural phenomenon on <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer scientists wish to get to <destination> with their <cargo> by <date> to observe a rare natural phenomenon. Payment will be <payment>.
New animal found on <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer biologists wish to get to <destination> with their <cargo> to study a recently discovered animal species. Payment will be <payment>.
You wish the biologists the best of luck on <planet> as they carry their scientific equipment off of your ship and hand you your payment of <payment>.
New plant found on <planet>
These <bunks> Wanderer botanists wish to get to <destination> with their <cargo> to study a recently discovered plant species. Payment will be <payment>.
You wish the botanists the best of luck on <planet> as they carry their scientific equipment off of your ship and hand you your payment of <payment>.
Food harvest on <planet>
Bring these <bunks> Wanderers to <destination> to assist in the food harvest. Payment is <payment>.
You wish the Wanderers the best of luck on <planet> and collect your payment of <payment>.
Quarantine an invasive species
These <bunks> Wanderers need to get to <stopovers> with their <cargo> to contain an invasive animal species. Return the Wanderers to <origin> with the animals by <date> for a payment of <payment>.
The Wanderers quickly make their way out of your ship with their equipment to contain the invasive animals. After roughly an hour, they return to your ship with cages that they place into your cargo hold. Now return to <origin> for payment.
After releasing the animals, the <bunks> Wanderers each thank you for assisting them in returning the animals to <planet> and hand you <payment>.
These <bunks> Wanderers need to get to <stopovers> with their <cargo> to contain an invasive plant species. Return the Wanderers to <origin> with the plants by <date> for a payment of <payment>.
The Wanderers quickly make their way out of your ship with their equipment to contain the invasive plant. After roughly an hour, they return to your ship with plants in containers of some sort that they place into your cargo hold. Now return to <origin> for payment.
After handing the plants off to other Wanderers to plant elsewhere, the <bunks> Wanderers each thank you for assisting them in keeping the plants on <planet> and hand you <payment>.
You drop off your cargo of <commodity>. The Wanderers thank you and you collect your payment of <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to <destination> by <date>. Payment is <payment>.
Captured Unfettered to <planet>
Transport <bunks> captured Unfettered soldiers to <planet>. To keep them from making any trouble, you'll need suitable facilities to transport them. Payment is <payment>.
Once you land on <planet>, several uniformed Wanderers drive the Unfettered prisoners off of your ship. You collect your payment of <payment>.
Governor to <planet>
Transport the local governor to the capital city of <planet> by <date>. They expect a comfortable journey and the suitable facilities to go with it. Payment is <payment>.
Deliver <cargo> to the Kor Efreti on <destination>. Payment is <payment>.
Investigating Kor Efreti worlds
Take this mix of <bunks> Wanderer scientists, botanists, and terraforming experts to the Kor Efret world of <stopovers> and back. Payment is <payment>.
The Wanderers tour the planet to investigate the environmental problems this Kor Efret world faces. They try to point out specific things to the Korath accompanying them, but it's not very effective. After a few hours, they've gathered enough data and are ready to return home.
When you return, the Wanderers thank you for taking them to the Kor Efreti and hand you <payment> before disembarking.
The Wanderers do not devote much time to developing weapon technology, preferring to focus their attention on more constructive endeavors. However, the few weapons they have created are efficient and deadly.
As the Wanderers slowly cope with the transition from peacetime to the growing conflict with the Unfettered Hai, they have begun building ships that are capable of carrying turret-mounted weapons. Because of the sheer size of the Sunbeam, this turret only carries one of them.
This turret carries a pair of Wanderer Sunbeams. For any ship that can support its energy requirements, it is an immensely powerful weapon.
Because their Sunbeams are not very effective against the heavy plating of the Korath drones, the Wanderers have developed a new beam weapon that is considerably more effective against hull armor.
This turret only carries a single Moonbeam weapon, but with its duty cycle increased so it can do 50% more damage than the non-turreted version.
As a defense against the tracker pods used by the Unfettered Hai, the Wanderers have developed a hard-hitting anti-missile system that can knock almost any missile out of the sky with a single shot.
A prime example of Wanderer ingenuity, Thunderhead Missiles each carry five submunitions that are capable of independent tracking. Even if the target is able to shoot down or evade a few of them, the remaining missile fragments will still find their mark.
Thunderhead cluster munitions are long-range Wanderer missiles that split into five fast and agile submunitions when they are close to their target. Each launcher can hold up to 40 of these.
The Thunderhead Storage Array is used to store extra ammunition for Thunderhead Launchers.
This tiny generator draws energy from the metabolic byproducts of a collection of microorganisms that have been engineered by the Wanderers specifically for this purpose.
The Wanderers are masters of unusual and efficient technology. This bioreactor is fueled by a culture of microorganisms that produce a small electric charge.
The Wanderers have recently begun producing this tiny reactor as a way to squeeze a bit more energy production into their warships.
This is a compact nuclear reactor designed by the Wanderers. In addition to generating power, it is able to store a small amount of energy.
The White Sun is a large nuclear reactor that the Wanderers use for powering their Strong Wind warships.
As the Wanderers have begun producing heavy warships, a need has arisen for larger and larger reactor cores to power them.
This small Wanderer shield generator is able to recharge a ship's shields at a considerable rate, but it also consumes more energy than some other shield generators do.
This Wanderer shield generator can restore a ship's shield strength more quickly than any human shielding technology, but while recharging shields it also draws a much larger amount of power.
Wanderer ships are designed to be self-sufficient even when traveling through uninhabited space, and their compact and efficient ramscoops are a key part of that self-sufficiency.
Most Wanderer systems are so efficient that ancillary cooling is unnecessary. As a result, their recent attempts to add cooling to their heavy warships are somewhat rudimentary.
This is the tiniest Wanderer engine. Like all their engines, it works in part by radiating excess heat, and as a result it doubles as a cooler for your ship.
Wanderer engines work by transferring excess heat from the ship into the exhaust plasma. When not providing thrust, the engines still serve as a cooling system.
Most engines this size generate a considerable amount of heat, but the Wanderers have developed a way of using the engine itself to vent extra heat from a ship, generating extra propulsive force in the process.
This is the largest engine that the Wanderers have developed. Its incredibly efficient design allows it to cool your ship even while it is firing.
This tiny steering system is used by the Wanderers to power their unpiloted mining and surveying drones.
This small Wanderer steering system vents excess heat from your ship even when it is not in use, allowing it to double as a cooling system.
This steering system is used by the Wanderers in their mid-sized ships. In addition to turning your ship, it is able to vent a considerable amount of heat.
This is the largest steering system that the Wanderers sell.
Spoke with a Wanderer ambassador named Iktat Rek using the translation device and received permission to purchase some of their technology, but not their ships.
Managed to broker a temporary ceasefire between the Unfettered Hai and the Wanderers. Was granted access to purchase the non-military Wanderer ships, as a reward.
Received permission to purchase warships from the Wanderers, including a new one called the Tempest.
With the Eye fully opened, Wanderer ships have begun flooding into this region of space. This desolate planet seems to be of particular interest to them, with drones rapidly surveying in all directions, and a small outpost beginning to form.
	As you land on the outskirts of this settlement, one of the workers comes up to you as you leave your ship. "[Greetings, welcome], it is [delightful, pleasing] to see you have come to show your interest in our exploration. Unfortunately, there exists much [hazard, risk] on a world we know so little about. This will be our staging ground to [explore, catalog] this new region, but it will take some time to be assured of the [safety, security] of our outpost. I suggest you take time to [orient, locate] yourself in these systems while we set up before returning to help. Of course you are welcome when we have [determined, established] safety, there will be many ships needed to help heal the many ruined planets here."
Wanderer Surveying
The Wanderers asked you to survey several of the nearby planets in Korath space, and to bring the data back to them on <planet> when you are done.
The Wanderers have another mission for you, but you will need <capacity> for their scientific equipment.
Tele'ek became part of the expeditionary force that was formed to explore the territory beyond the Eye once it opened.
The Wanderers have begun building a base here, with freighters landing every few minutes to bring more supplies or people. They have a fair number of weapons and warships to keep the Korath automata at bay, but the majority of the supplies look like scientific tools or possibly equipment for terraforming planets.
	Soon after you land, you are ushered in to a meeting with several of the senior Wanderer leaders. You recognize the military commander Sobari Tele'ek, but the others are strangers to you. And oddly, in addition to the adults there is a Wanderer child in the meeting, barely more than a meter tall, with iridescent black plumage like a starling.
	When she sees you the child says, "Greetings, Captain." Surprisingly, she speaks in your own language. It's heartening that the Wanderers are teaching your language to their children; perhaps in a few years you'll no longer need the translation device to talk with them.
	Tele'ek asks you, "Have you explored this new [territory, responsibility] that the Eye has brought us to?"
	"Yes, it looks like the worlds here are in great need of your care."
	"I've run into hostile robotic drones here. You may have been safer back where you came from."
	"No, I have not had time to explore yet."
	"Indeed," says one of the other Wanderers. "It is very [exciting, stimulating]."
	"Perhaps," says Tele'ek, "but we have not yet found a way to [communicate, reason] with them. Perhaps their attacks on us are merely a misunderstanding."
	A different Wanderer speaks up and says, "This new territory is full of [promise, possibility], but we are few in number still and have not dared to [explore, survey] too widely. Human, you have [special, exotic] means of travel and can perhaps explore more [safely? circumspectly?] than we can. Will you visit some worlds for us and help us to [measure, discern] what must be done to heal them?"
	"Are you sure you aren't in danger here from the Korath drones?"
	"Don't worry," says Tele'ek. "[Resisting, fighting] the Unfettered Hai forced us to develop stronger warships. We are well [equipped, prepared] for this new threat."
	The Wanderers load a large amount of scientific equipment onto your ship and explain how to use it. They also indicate several planets that their long-range sensors have detected that they would like you to investigate further.
The Wanderers have asked you to survey some more worlds, which are deep in the territory of the Kor Mereti drones, and to bring the measurements back to them on <planet>.
Iriket is a Wanderer specializing in terraforming, who has been selected to survey the worlds beyond the Eye and to make plans for how each one can be made to flourish once more. She is far more interested in the terraforming work than in dealing with the threat of the Korath war machines.
When you land, a Wanderer named Tema'a Iriket meets you, and identifies herself as the head of the terraforming team. She is excited to see your data on the nearby planets. "For each of these worlds," she says, "we must decide what [treatment, strategy] will best enable it to flourish once more. Even if a world is near to the [territory, domain] of the [dangerous, hostile] robots, we may be able to begin its [healing, transformation] from a distance."
	"I'm surprised your species is so eager to start terraforming. I'd think the threat of the Korath automata would be your first priority."
	"Is there any way I can help with the terraforming efforts?"
	She says, "[Healing, renewing] worlds is something we love doing. Fighting is not something we love. So unless the robots become more [aggressive, threatening] we prefer not to seek out conflict. And in the meantime, it would be [intriguing, exciting] to make measurements on the planets they control. Could you do that for us?"
	"I am [pleased, delighted] that you asked," she says. "What we would find most [useful, interesting] right now would be [climate? ecosystem?] measurements from the planets orbiting these stars." On a local star map, she points out several star systems.
	"Those are deep in Kor Mereti territory," you tell her.
	"Yes," she says, "which is why I am [hoping, presuming] to ask you to make the measurements."
	"Sure, I would be glad to do that."
	"That sounds awfully dangerous."
	"Excellent," she says. "I will collect the data from you when you are done."
	"I have complete [trust, faith] in your abilities," she says, and then she walks away before you can protest further.
	When you report to the Wanderer leaders, they have several other requests for you. A cosmologist named Erukt Isi'ithi is interested in scanner data on three supernova remnants near Korath space. And Sobari Tele'ek wants you to collect more data on the automata. "If we knew how they function," he says, "we might be able to [make peace with, befriend] them. Perhaps you could [board, salvage] a disabled drone of each [faction?] and bring us whichever [parts, components] control its [decision-making, intelligence]."
	"The drones are powerful. I'm not sure I can disable one."
	"They seem to do a good job of disabling each other when they meet," he says. "Or you could [upgrade to, purchase] one of our [necessary? lamentable?] warships."
	You leave the meeting with a long list of tasks to perform for the Wanderers. You hope they appreciate all the assistance you are giving them.
You present your planetary measurements to Tema'a Iriket, the terraforming director. She is very excited about the data. "So many worlds," she says, "each with their own [personality? idiosyncrasies?]. We will learn more about each one, and discover how we can [partner, collaborate] with them to help them [recover, be reborn]."
	She tells you that for now, they do not need any more scanning data, but she will let you know if new needs arise in the future.
Nova Remnants
A Wanderer cosmologist named Erukt Isi'ithi asked you to visit several nearby stars that seem to be supernova remnants, and to make measurements on them.
You fire up your ship's sensors and collect the data that the Wanderers asked for on this system's sun.
Archons are partly biological, partly technological, and partly something that human language has no words for. They are extremely powerful. The Archons are somehow affiliated with the Drak, yet separate from them.
You contact the cosmologist Erukt Isi'ithi and give him a copy of your ship's scans of the supernova remnants. To you, the scanner results are inscrutable, but clearly to him they tell a story, and not one he is happy with: his body shakes violently and the pupils of his eyes shrink to pinpoints as he looks at the data.
	"These stars died an [untimely, unnatural] death," he says. "I wonder what the role of these Archon [beings, entities] was. Is the [destabilization, destruction] of these stars a crime the Korath committed, for which the Archons punished them? Or did the Korath commit some other crime, and the Archons [ripped, tore] these stars apart as punishment?"
	"Which do you think is more likely?"
	"Has your species encountered the Archons before?"
	He says, "One of the Archons [visited, appeared at] this world when we first settled here. It promised terrible [retribution, punishment] if we harmed either [faction? remnant?] of Korath survivors, and warned us of the [hostile, uncontrolled] robot drones. I have no doubt that they could [destroy, rend open] a star; they are beings [not entirely contained within this universe? extending into hidden dimensions?]. But the Archon who [spoke, communicated, interacted] with us did not seem [malicious, violent]."
	"So, the Archons are living creatures? Not some sort of ship?"
	"The Quarg say that the Drak are interested in keeping peace in the galaxy."
	He says, "They are partly [living, biological], partly [constructed, technological], and partly..." Whatever the third part is, the words for it are so far removed from human language that your translation device doesn't even attempt a guess at how to express them.
	You tell him, "The Quarg are a peaceful species, and they say the Drak are peacemakers as well. So perhaps we should not be too worried about their intentions."
	He says, "Even if that is so, [enforcing, maintaining] peace must sometimes require the use of [force, violence]. Also, have the Quarg [explained, revealed] to you who the Drak are? Are the Archons the Drak? Or were they [constructed? created? birthed?] by the Drak? The Archons do not appear to be a [naturally evolved species?]."
	He sits silently for a minute, then says, "The Archon that spoke with us said, 'I am an Archon.' It did not say, 'I am a Drak.' Have you ever [spoken, communed] with an Archon? Did it [call, name] itself a Drak?"
	"I don't think so."
	"I think it did."
	"I don't remember."
	"Interesting," he says. He promises to share any further information he obtains with you, and you thank him for his time.
Kor Mereti Controller
Board one of the Kor Mereti drones, find whatever component is controlling its actions, and bring that component back to the Wanderers on <planet>.
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't yet have a the component that is controlling the Kor Mereti drones. Depart and attempt to board one of the drones to plunder one.
You hand off the Reasoning Node that you recovered from a Kor Mereti drone to a team of Wanderer scientists. A few hours later they report back to you. "This is a very [robust, redundant] design," says the lead scientist. "Each of these nodes has enough [processing power? intelligence?] to control one of the drones, but they are also [linked, interconnected] via a hyperspace network. So, all the drones [communicate, confer] with each other and are capable of making [strategic decisions?] as a collective."
	"So no one is commanding the drones?"
	"But without their communications network, they would lose much of their intelligence?"
	"It appears not," he says. "Given the number of drones and the [complexity, sophistication] of their [computing equipment?], the collective is as intelligent as any [artificial mind?] that my own species has ever constructed."
	"Yes," he says, "but the network is very [redundant? decentralized?]. It could quickly adapt to any but the most [severe, catastrophic] interruption. It is a [beautiful? elegant?] design, similar to a [living system?]."
	He tells you that the scientists will continue to examine the Reasoning Node and see if they can identify any weaknesses to exploit, but he does not sound hopeful. Which is too bad, because the Kor Mereti are a much more immediate threat to the Wanderers than the Kor Sestor.
Kor Sestor Controller
Board one of the Kor Sestor drones, find whatever component is controlling its actions, and bring that component back to the Wanderers on <planet>.
You have returned to <planet>, but you don't yet have a the component that is controlling the Kor Sestor drones. Depart and attempt to board one of the drones to plunder one.
A team of Wanderer scientists examines the Control Transceiver that you salvaged from a Kor Sestor drone. "It is a remote control," they tell you. "Very little [computing power? autonomy?]. The ship receives [commands, directives] from some other source and sends back information on its own [status, observations]."
	"Is there any way we could track the source of the commands?"
	"Could we disrupt their communications somehow? Render them helpless?"
	"No," says the scientist, "it uses an [entangled particle?]. Untraceable, impossible to [interrupt, interfere with], and it could [operate, communicate] over any distance. But if we could locate the [control center?], we would be able to [take over, hijack] all the drones simultaneously."
	"What would the control center look like?" you ask.
	"It could be anything," says the scientist. "Maybe a massive computer. Maybe an artificial mind. Maybe an underground [bunker, habitation] where aging [war captains, generals] hide out in order to direct their [pointless, futile] war. But whatever it is, it is a single [point, focus] of vulnerability, which we may use to our advantage."
The Wanderer base on <planet> is under attack by Kor Mereti drones. Help the Wanderers to drive them off, then return to the planet.
While you are still walking back to your ship from your latest meeting, alarm sirens begin to sound, and you see many Wanderers leaping into the air and flying quickly toward the spaceport, where ships are quickly beginning to take off. (Interestingly, a Wanderer alarm siren sounds more like a quacking duck than like the shrieking or droning sounds commonly used as alarms by humans.) It would appear that the base is under attack.
	You return as quickly as possible to your ship and prepare to join the other defenders...
There are still Kor Mereti drones circling overhead. You should help the Wanderers to drive them off.
As the last of the Kor Mereti raiding party is destroyed, you receive a message from Sobari Tele'ek. "Please join us at the [base, settlement] as soon as you are able to," he says. "We will need to [agree, decide] on a strategy to deal with these [robots, drones] in case their attacks grow worse."
Bring Rek to <planet>
Bring Rek, who has survived the Molt and taken on a new form, to try to communicate with the Kor Efret on <destination>.
You will need room for a passenger in order to take on the next Wanderer mission.
Rek underwent the Molt, a mysterious process in which the body of a Wanderer who is exposed to novel stimuli transforms into a completely new species while still maintaining that individual's memories and personality. The new Rek is a female and goes by the name "Ektasi Rek."
Ektasi Rek is the first Wanderer in millennia to undergo the Molt, changing into a completely different species with new capabilities. As more Wanderers go through the Molt, the Wanderers as a whole will have to decide which of these mutations represents the best way for their species to survive and flourish in Korath space.
When you enter the meeting room, Sobari Tele'ek is in a heated argument with the Wanderer child who was here earlier, the one who speaks your language. The child is saying, "The Eye has sent us not to a place of [empty, abandoned] worlds but to a place of [living beings?]. To complete our [calling, work] here we must collaborate with those beings, just as we would collaborate with the [ecosystem? personality?] of a planet we sought to repair."
	"What do you [propose, intend], Firstborn?" asks Tele'ek.
	"I would visit the [remaining, surviving] Korath," she says. "I would learn their [language? viewpoint? history?]. I would offer them our [companionship, assistance]."
	"No," says Tele'ek. "How could I [endanger, gamble with] your life? You are too [precious, unique] to be sent on such a [mission, assignment]."
	"You cannot command me," she says.
	"Until you are [fully formed? complete?] I can," he says.
	(Interrupt the argument to report on the Kor Mereti attack.)
	(Let them continue talking.)
	You interrupt to begin describing how the Kor Mereti attack was driven off, but as you are talking the Wanderer child leaps off her seat and hops over to perch near the head of the table. "I name myself," she says, quietly.
	The Wanderer child draws herself up to her full height (which, admittedly, is still not terribly impressive), and says quietly, "I name myself."
	Instantly all other conversation in the room stops. Based on what Iktat Rek told you, a Wanderer child becomes an adult in the moment when she chooses a role-name for herself. "I name myself [communicator, ambassador, bridge-builder]," she says. "Captain <last> will take me to [live with, join] the peaceful Korath."
	To your surprise, Tele'ek agrees to let her go after giving her one last warning to be careful. She walks and flutter-hops at your heels as you return to your ship; apparently she has no need of any luggage.
	"I'm glad to be transporting you. What should I call you?"
	"I'm surprised your father gave you permission to do this."
	She cocks her head quizzically at you. "You do not know who I am?" she says. Now that you are out of the meeting, she is once more speaking to you in your own language.
	"No, I don't," you say.
	She looks confused. "Tele'ek is not my father," she says. "I am my own father." Now that you are out of the meeting, she is once more speaking to you in your own language.
	"After all our work together, you do not recognize me?" she asks. "I am Ektasi Rek i' Rek." It takes you a moment to realize that she is not claiming to be Rek's daughter. She is claiming to be "Rek, who came from Rek." She is Rek himself. Or apparently, now, herself. Alien biology is full of surprises.
	"Rek! You survived the Molt! Why did no one tell me?"
	"Wait, you're female now?"
	She says, "Things got a bit chaotic when the Eye opened." You're not sure if that's the full truth, or if Rek was just enjoying playing a trick on you and waiting to see how long you would take to catch on.
	She laughs. "I'm not even technically the same species that I was before. A change in gender is minor compared to that." It's hard to read Wanderer facial expressions, but she seems to be thoroughly enjoying how confused you are.
	Rek has no trouble finding the bunk rooms, and cheerfully settles in while you prepare for the journey to <planet>.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Rek hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Quarg Assistance
Ektasi Rek suggested that you should visit the Quarg and ask if they can help defend the Wanderers from Kor Mereti attacks.
Rek's Molt has given her enhanced ability not only to understand alien speech, but to mimic the sound of it as well.
Soon after you and Ektasi Rek land in the Kor Efret spaceport, a small group of Korath gathers around you. No doubt they realize that Rek is one of the new aliens settling in their former territory. But when Rek begins trying to communicate with them, their desire to be understood overcomes whatever hostility they might be feeling.
	Within a few minutes Rek is playing a sort of game with them where she points at different objects, trying to learn their names, and then uses those names in sentences: This is a table. Rek is on the table. Rek stands on the table. The table is under Rek. The color of the table is black. The color of the table is the same as the color of Rek.
	The Korath wave their hands approvingly when Rek says something they agree with, and hiss when she makes a grammatical mistake. The new words and new parts of speech are coming too fast for you to catch more than the general gist of what is going on, but Rek is drinking it all in. She looks so happy and full of life that it's hard to believe that she is the same person you said goodbye to in the medical center months ago.
	After about an hour Rek says something to the group of Korath, and then walks over to you.
	"You look like you're making amazing progress!"
	"What do you want me to do now?"
	She seems very pleased with herself. "I think the Molt has given me the mental plasticity of a child again," she says. "This is almost as easy as breathing. But it will take me a while before I understand the subtleties of their language well enough to communicate anything of great importance." It's a bit disconcerting that her vocal organs are somehow able to so perfectly reproduce both the sibilant Korath language and your own human language, in addition to the glottal and percussive sounds of Wanderer speech. And the Hai language as well, for that matter.
	"So," you ask, "what should I do while you're here learning the language?"
	She says, "I'm worried about the Kor Mereti making another attack on my people. Do you think the Quarg would be willing to help protect us?"
	You agree that it's worth a try. She suggests that you visit the Quarg ringworld and try to find someone with the authority to send a defense fleet to guard the Wanderer settlement.
Escort a Quarg fleet that has agreed to help protect the Wanderers back to <destination>.
According to the Quarg, the Wanderers are not native to this galaxy, but were brought here from somewhere else (presumably by the Pug).
The Quarg do not generally share any information on how their leadership hierarchy works, if such a hierarchy even exists, so your best bet to find help for the Wanderers is just to ask around until you find the right person. You flag down the first Quarg who passes you in the hallway. "So," it says, "us the Quarg the human sojourner has come to visit. Of assistance how may I be?"
	"Well," you say, "I'm here on behalf of a species that has recently settled on one of the abandoned Korath worlds. I'm hoping you can help protect them."
	It says, "Yes, aware are we that befriended have you the eternally drifting Wanderers, who are friends of the insufferable Pug. But wherefore aid them should we?"
	"The Wanderers know how to repair planetary ecosystems. They could make the Korath worlds livable again."
	"The Wanderers may be able to help you deal with the hostile automata."
	"Are they able also to make the Korathi worthy to inhabit those worlds again? Are they able to make wise enough the Korathi to not ruin their homes once more? Or do the abilities of these extragalactic interlopers not extend so far?"
	"Are their vessels and arms mightier than ours?" asks the Quarg. "Have they a wisdom vaster than our own? Or are they more numerous than we? For we are trillions. What could these extragalactic interlopers achieve, that long before your emergence attempted have we not?"
	When you don't respond, the Quarg continues, "These Wanderers are not indigenous to our galaxy, and thus have not we an obligation to avert their extinction. The Korathi are our charge and our responsibility. So implore I you to tell me, why a good thing for the Korathi it is that their shattered territory these aliens invade."
	"The Wanderers could help the Korath by teaching them to take care of their worlds better."
	"The Wanderers don't want to stay here forever; they will move on once the worlds are repaired."
	The Quarg blinks slowly, with its strange eyelids moving from side to side rather than top to bottom. Then it says, "Grant you shall we three warships to with you travel back to the settlement of these friends of the loathsome Pug. They will help to keep the death-bringing robots at bay. And oversee will they the Wanderers, and judge if as benevolent as you say are they."
	It is extremely strange that the first random Quarg you accosted in the hallway happened to be one with the authority to launch a fleet of warships, but it would be impolite to question such a generous, if extremely verbose offer. You thank the Quarg and return to your ship. Hopefully the Wanderers will be glad for the protection and will not object to having a Quarg fleet overhead scrutinizing their actions.
You've reached <planet>, but you left one of the Quarg ships behind. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Pug Assistance
The Wanderers are thankful for the protection of the Quarg, but hope that the Pug on <planet> will be willing to send warships to protect them as well.
When you arrive at the Wanderer settlement with three Quarg warships in tow, you are met with a mix of gratitude and apprehension. The senior leaders insist on meeting with you immediately, and you explain how you delivered Rek to Kor Efret space and then visited the Quarg to ask for their assistance. Tele'ek asks you, "These Quarg, what are their [intentions, inclinations] toward us? And do they understand that we seek to [heal, renew] these worlds, not to steal them from the Korath?"
	"The Quarg avoid conflict unless absolutely necessary. If you show that you are peaceful, they will come to trust you."
	"I think the Quarg are worried that you are going to displace the surviving Korath."
	"The Quarg don't trust you because you're connected to the Pug. They also say you aren't native to this galaxy."
	"Well," says Tele'ek, "if they really [desire, hope] for these worlds to be [fruitful, habitable] once more, the best thing we can do is prove our [value, virtue] by beginning our work. We are a [patient, deliberate] species too, and we understand that gaining the [trust, goodwill] of another may take time."
	"I hope that Rek will be able to [allay, assuage] that fear," says Tele'ek. "Surely if we are able to [communicate, connect] with the Korath survivors, they will soon come to see that our intentions are [peaceful, honorable, benevolent]."
	Tele'ek says, "That is a [reasonable, understandable] sentiment. But when they [learn, observe] that our goal is only to make these worlds [flourish, be fruitful] once more, I hope that we will [win, earn] their trust."
	"And besides," says Iriket, the terraforming director, "we will only be in this [region of space, territory] for a short time, no more than ten or twenty thousand [years]. So I don't [see, understand] why they are so [concerned, defensive]."
	"Still," says Tele'ek, "Many among us wish that Rek had not [sent, instructed] you to visit the Quarg. The Keepers of the Eye kept the Hai [at bay, held back]. Surely they could also help us [defeat, remove] these hostile robots. Surely they sent us here for the [healing, reconstruction] of worlds and not to lose our lives fighting an [implacable, remorseless] foe."
	"That might be worth a try. The Pug are full of surprises; they may have technology that would let them defeat the automata easily."
	"If getting caught in the crossfire between the two automaton factions is bad, wouldn't getting caught in the middle of a war between the Pug and the Quarg be even worse?"
	"They both want what is [optimal, productive] for this region," says Tele'ek. "Perhaps fighting side by side against a common enemy would allow the Pug and the Quarg to [reconcile, make peace] with each other."
	After some discussion, the other leaders agree that they are more comfortable going to the Pug for help than in solely trusting the goodwill of the Quarg. They ask you to travel back through the wormhole and visit the Pug world there, to see if they are willing to help.
Return to <planet> to tell the Wanderers there that the Pug refuse to send any ships through the Eye to help defend them.
For reasons that are not entirely clear, the Pug are hostile toward the Archons, yet also view them as being worthy of pity.
The Pug say that their species is split up into separate groups or "teams" that each focus on interacting with a different sentient species. They view those other species as "projects" that they are working on.
The moment you step off your ship you are surrounded by a group of armed Pug. "Perhaps we have not communicated clearly enough for the human's small brain to comprehend it," says one of them, "but we are uninterested in any further interactions with the human."
	"Actually, I'm here on behalf of the Wanderers."
	"Why are you so hostile toward me?"
	"We are not hostile," says another, "but our project is Wanderers, not humans. You have your own Pug and may bother them as you wish, if they will permit it."
	"Well, it's actually the Wanderers that I'm here to talk with you about."
	"You're saying that the group of Pug that attacked human space is a different faction?"
	"Not a different faction," says one of the Pug, "just a different team, working on a different project. They are the ones whose job is to understand and deal with humans, not us. Thankfully."
	"The Pug in human space have left now, so there's no way to 'bother' them anymore."
	"Of course they have," says one of the Pug, in a tone of voice that suggests that you're extremely foolish to think that the Pug are done meddling in human affairs.
	You explain to the Pug that you are here on behalf of the Wanderers: that the region of space the Eye led them to is infested by dangerous robotic automata. They respond, "It is also infested with the pitiable Archons and their pet Quarg. With whom we are not exactly on speaking terms."
	Another of the Pug adds, "To be slightly more precise, we are in fact on blowing-each-other-up terms with them."
	"Couldn't you make peace with them, if you wanted to?"
	"Why do the Archons hate you?"
	"What do you know about the Archons?"
	"Honestly," says one of the Pug, "it's just not worth the effort."
	"The Archons have such a dour outlook on life," says another, "and talking with them is just too depressing."
	"We had a disagreement recently," says one of the Pug. "We were right. The Archons were wrong. They are still sulking."
	"We know that they were created to mediate peace and prevent extinction," says one of the Pug. "And we know that they failed. Have failed many times, in fact. And that makes them all mopey and depressing."
	You talk with them for a while longer but are unable to gain any more information or to convince them to come to the aid of the Wanderers who are in Korath space. You'll have to report to Sobari Tele'ek that the Quarg fleet is the only outside aid they are likely to receive.
Mereti Observation
Observe the Kor Mereti in Mesuket for long enough for the Wanderer equipment to collect data on their communications. Then return to <planet>.
You will need <capacity> free to take on the next mission for the Wanderers.
Sobari Tele'ek meets with you soon after you return, and you tell him that the Pug refuse to help defend the Wanderers in Korath space because of the presence of the Quarg and the Archons. "Then we must find our own [path, solution]," he says. "Come, I have a team of [scientists? engineers?] who wish to meet with you."
	He leads you to a different facility where a team of Wanderers are gathered around a table with the disassembled components of the Reasoning Node spread out across it. The lead scientist introduces you to her team and then says, "We believe we have found a way to [intercept, listen in on] the [network traffic? communications?] of the automata that use these [devices, systems]. We need someone to travel to the star system where their [conflict, warfare] is fiercest and make a [recording, observation] of their communications. Can you perform this [task, quest]?"
	"That sounds very risky."
	"Indeed," she says, "but you are very [skilled, lucky] in evading harm." Hesitantly, you agree to take on yet another dangerous mission on their behalf.
	The scientists begin working to install the new equipment on your ship. As they do so, Tele'ek tells you, "We also hope to collect further [information, intelligence] on the combat capabilities and [tactics, decision making] of the drones. If their [network, communications] are not vulnerable, we must instead find a way to defeat them in battle." You agree to stay in the target system for long enough to observe some of the drones fighting each other.
You enter the target system and begin recording the communications of the Kor Mereti drones. It may take a while to collect all the data that the Wanderers need, but they have set up their equipment to notify you when it is done collecting.
The Wanderer recording device chirps at you to let you know that it has collected enough data. Time to return to <planet>.
You've returned to <planet>, but you don't have enough data for the Wanderers. Return to Mesuket and wait until the device notifies you that it has enough data.
Visit Ektasi Rek and the Korath on <planet>, and see if they have information that could help in neutralizing the Kor Mereti automata.
You hand off the communications recordings to the team of scientists, then meet with Tele'ek for a while to discuss the possible weaknesses of the Mereti drones when in combat. "Of course," he says, "it would be far better if we could [subvert, hijack] them rather than destroying them outright. Otherwise the second drone [faction, variant] will gain in power, without the Mereti drones to [cull them, keep them in check]."
	About an hour later, the scientists contact Tele'ek. You return to their facility, and the lead scientist tells you, "It is as we [suspected, hypothesized]. The Mereti drones function as [components, elements] of a single unified [collective intelligence? gestalt consciousness?]. We will [analyze, deconstruct] their protocols further to see if we can somehow [infect, corrupt] their network."
	While you are waiting for them to come up with a plan, Tele'ek suggests that you make a visit to Ektasi Rek. If she has made progress in communicating with the Korath survivors, perhaps they will be able to help the Wanderers think of a way to hack into the Mereti network and take control of the drones.
Korath Engineers
The Korath on <origin> referred you to a team of engineers on <planet> who have been working to try to eliminate the automata.
To take on this mission, you will need a bunk free for Rek.
Rek seems delighted to see you, and is even more confident and full of life than she was when you left. She introduces you to several of the Korath, speaking to them rapidly in their own language.
	"Rek! How have you learned their language so fast?"
	"I'm here to see if the Korath could help us hack into the Kor Mereti communication network and take over control of the drones."
	She says, "It seems that the Molt has altered not only my vocal organs, but also my mind. Any language just feels clear and obvious to me now. It is strange, because the Molt is a random mutation; I had no say in what I would become. Yet, it has given me the exact skills I need to create a partnership with the Korath."
	"Well, if it was really just a matter of chance what you would turn into, I'm glad that your new form suits you so perfectly."
	"I am glad too," she says. "It is strange. Years ago, I thought that if I Molted I would resent the loss of my old body and my old identity. Yet I feel more at home in this new body than I ever did before. It is an unexpected gift. But now, how can I help you?" You tell her about the scientists hoping to hack into the Mereti network, and ask her to suggest the idea to the Korath.
	Rek does her best to explain your suggestion to the Korath. One of them responds, and she translates, "She said that there is a team of Korath engineers on <planet> who have been working for fifty years to find a way to destroy the automata. She says perhaps they can assist us."
	You agree to travel with Rek to <planet> and see what the engineers can tell you.
Defend this Kor Efret world from a Kor Mereti raid. Hopefully if you hold out long enough, more reinforcements will arrive.
With Rek's help, you make contact with the team of Korath engineers, and Rek explains the Wanderer plan to hack into the Kor Mereti network. Her speech is slower than before, and she has to keep asking questions; clearly the conversation involves technical jargon that she is not yet familiar with. When she is done explaining, the Korath are silent for a minute, then one of them answers quite loudly, almost shouting, gesturing in your direction as if pushing you away.
	Rek says, "He said, 'Do you think we are idiots? Do you think we have not attempted that?'" The Korath leader follows up with another long statement that Rek hesitantly translates. "The Mereti... consciousness? It is impossible to subvert. It has a sort of... immune system? Like a living creature. Any foreign influence that impinges on its network is sequestered and analyzed. It does not become part of the... gestalt? ... unless it is proven to be beneficial."
	"But perhaps the Wanderers could succeed where the Korath have failed."
	"What about the Kor Sestor? Do they have any hope of taking over those drones?"
	She says, "I'm sorry, <first>, but I'm not going to translate that. It would be an insult to the Korath, and they are very prickly when it comes to their honor. I wish you the best of luck, though."
	Rek asks the Korath a question, and translates the response. "They say that none of them know what is controlling the Kor Sestor, but that wherever the control center is, it is certainly tightly guarded. They have not been willing to risk their own lives to explore Sestor space, but you are free to do so if you think it would be beneficial."
	The conversation is interrupted as alarm sirens begin to sound throughout the spaceport. One of the Korath says something to Rek, and they all begin running toward the landing pads. Rek says, "Another Kor Mereti attack. They have become more frequent, lately. You should join the defenders; fighting alongside them will help to gain their trust." You hurry back to your ship and take off...
The Kor Mereti drones have been neutralized. You should land on the planet and reconnect with Rek and the Korath engineers.
Transport Ektasi Rek back to <planet>, where she will continue her work to understand the Korath language and culture.
When the Korath civil war reached a point where they had nearly driven themselves extinct, the Drak Archons stepped in and offered the surviving Korath an ultimatum: they must either give up their advanced weaponry and live peaceably under the protection of the Quarg, or be banished to some lifeless star systems near the galactic core. Those who chose banishment apparently took with them the secret of how to build jump drives, which has enabled them to raid other species and steal from them.
When you land back on the planet, Rek and several of the Korath meet you at your ship. "They would like to thank you for your assistance in defending their home," says Rek, "and they apologize for being so dismissive of the Wanderer plans to defeat the drones. They still think that hacking or corrupting the Mereti network is impossible, though."
	"Well, I guess I should tell that to the Wanderer leaders."
	"Can they at least tell us more about where the drones came from?"
	Rek asks a question, and translates the answer. "There was a civil war. It lasted hundreds of years. The Kor Mereti and the Kor Sestor were the two rival empires. The Kor Efret were those who sought to remain neutral and not join in the fighting."
	She waits as the Korath continue the story, then says, "The Mereti and the Sestor each built drone fleets programmed to attack the other. They also made many other weapons, very dangerous ones. Eventually, about a century ago, it became clear that the war would consume and destroy both empires, if it continued. The Archons stepped in and gave a choice to each member of the Kor Mereti and the Kor Sestor."
	The Korath continue the story. Rek says, "The choice was: to give up jump drives, give up their advanced technologies of war, and join the Kor Efret, living under Quarg supervision. Any who refused were exiled to the lifeless star systems near the core. Sestor and Mereti, forced to live together in exile and to depend on each other, united by their anger toward the Archons who exiled them."
	"What sort of technologies did they develop?"
	"What do they mean, 'give up jump drives'? Did they figure out how to manufacture them?"
	Rek asks, and translates the response. "They say, they will not relive the shame of their parents by describing their deeds. But the scars that they left on their former planets, and even on entire star systems, speak for themselves. As do the drone fleets, who continue to drain their homes of resources to prosecute a war that their creators have long since abandoned."
	Rek asks, and translates the response. "Yes, one thing that the exiles were unwilling to give up was the knowledge of how to create jump drives so they could raid other nearby species. Although..." She pauses to listen as one of the Korath says something else. "He says, the exiles would be far better off without them. The manufacturing process is precarious, and one wrong step can cause an explosion that destroys the ship or station where the drives are being constructed."
	Rek tells you that she wants to return to <planet> to continue her work with the Korath community there. You agree to take her there before returning to report to Tele'ek.
Return to <planet> and report to Sobari Tele'ek that the Korath do not think the Mereti drone network can be compromised.
You drop off Ektasi Rek on <origin>, and wish her the best of luck in her continued efforts to understand and befriend the Korath. She is clearly eager to get back to work.
	Then, you get ready to return to <planet>. Sobari Tele'ek will not be happy to hear that the Korath engineers think there is no hope of compromising the Kor Mereti network.
Kor Mereti Hacking
Test a device that the Wanderers think may be able to gain access to the Kor Mereti network and disrupt it.
You will need <capacity> to take on the next Wanderer mission.
You expect the Wanderers to be discouraged by the news that the Korath think the Mereti gestalt consciousness is too robust to be hacked into or compromised. But when you arrive, the communications scientists are excited about a breakthrough: they have managed to develop a program that makes the one sample Reasoning Node you fetched for them follow orders that they give it. They ask you to bring the device to one of the Kor Mereti systems and test it out on the drones there.
	Meanwhile, you can't help but notice that Sobari Tele'ek is showing the same thinning feathers and disheveled appearance that heralded the beginning of the Molt for Iktat Rek. You're not sure if it's polite to say something or not.
	"Tele'ek, are you beginning to Molt?"
	(Say nothing, and return to my ship.)
	"I believe so," he says. "My [appetite? caloric intake?] has doubled in the past week, and as you can see, I am losing feathers. It is [inconvenient, disruptive] timing. I now understand why Rek sought to [fight, postpone] the Molt rather than give in to it."
	You aren't sure what you can say that would be helpful to him, so you return to your ship and prepare to travel to the Mekislepti system to test out the Kor Mereti hacking program.
When you enter the Mekislepti system, an entire fleet of drones moves to intercept you. Hardly daring to hope, you press the button that activates the Wanderer program. For a fraction of a second, the drones' engines stop firing and they drift as if out of control. Then, with renewed purpose, they move to attack you.
	Oh well. It was worth a shot.
Travel to the Wanderer artificial intelligence lab on <planet>, where they will give you one of the "artificial minds" they have constructed.
You meet with the Wanderer leaders and tell them that the attempt to hack the Kor Mereti drones has failed. They seem uncertain of what to do next. Some of them want to try to target the Kor Sestor instead; others want to give the scientists another shot.
	Tema'a Iriket asks you, "Why do you think our [attempt, experiment] failed?"
	"The Korath survivors say that the Mereti drones have a sort of immune system that allows them to reject any intrusion that seeks to disrupt or coopt their network."
	"Perhaps we just need a more sophisticated or intelligent program, something that could overpower the Mereti defenses."
	She thinks about that for a moment, then says, "In terraforming, we say that each planet has a [will, identity], and it will never work to [overrule, overpower] the planet. Instead, we must [collaborate, partner] with it. Perhaps we can do the same with this [consciousness]."
	A stir of excitement passes through the Wanderers. Finally, this is a strategy that lines up with their preferred way of doing things. "What do you mean?" asks one of them.
	Iriket says, "We give them one of the [artificial minds?] that we use for [planetary oversight?]. Let it [merge with, become a part of] the Mereti gestalt consciousness. Not to [destroy, subvert] it, but to reach an [understanding, partnership] with it."
	Several of the Wanderers seem very agitated by that suggestion. Tele'ek says, "You would give them access to a [technology, resource] that would make them even more [powerful, capable] than before?"
	"That sounds like it might work. If your artificial intelligence truly means them no harm, the Mereti might recognize that."
	"I think Tele'ek is right. The Mereti drones are already plenty dangerous without access to advanced computing technology."
	You try to speak up, but the Wanderers are so hotly engaged in conversation that they have switched from the common language of the Hai back into their own native tongue, and you have no idea what they are saying. Eventually the debate ends, and Tele'ek says, "Very well, we will attempt this thing. Not because it is the [wise, certain] course of action, but because it is [in keeping with Wanderer values?]."
	They ask you to travel back through the wormhole and visit the artificial intelligence lab on <planet>.
Return to <planet> with a Wanderer named Meto Pa'aret and an "artificial mind" that he constructed.
To take this mission, you will need <capacity> free.
Pa'aret runs a Wanderer artificial intelligence laboratory. He is in charge of the effort to establish a connection between the Wanderers and the Kor Mereti collective by introducing a Wanderer "artificial Mind" into the collective.
On <origin> you are met by a Wanderer named Meto Pa'aret. He explains that he is in charge of the artificial intelligence lab, and he wants to travel with you along with the "Mind" that is being entrusted to your care. "We have already [altered, reconfigured] one of the climate [simulation, prediction] Minds for this new purpose," he says. "It now contains [stores, databases, libraries] of historical and cultural information, things we hope will help the alien [consciousness, intelligence] to [understand, sympathize with] us and realize our intentions are [peaceful, forthright]."
	"Are you sure that's wise, giving the Kor Mereti access to so much information about the Wanderers?"
	"How likely do you think this is to work?"
	"It is certainly not wise," he says, "but it is [right? fitting?]."
	He says, "There is insufficient [data, information] to even [attempt, hazard] a guess. But nevertheless it is the most [appealing, pleasing] [course of action?]."
	The "artificial Mind" turns out to be a computer not much larger than a typical cargo crate. Pa'aret walks beside it with one wing draped around it like an overprotective parent while Wanderer workers load it onto your ship. Clearly this particular piece of technology is very valuable to the Wanderers.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Meto Pa'aret and the Mind hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Fetch Escorts
When you are ready, visit <planet> to rendezvous with the fleet that will be accompanying you in your attempt to link a Wanderer artificial Mind to the Kor Mereti network.
While you were gone, the Wanderers have been conducting patrols of Kor Mereti space. Tele'ek tells you, "We have [decided, theorized] that the Mind is most likely to be accepted into the Mereti [gestalt consciousness] if it is physically located in their [home, territory]. Our goal is to install it within the [hull, shell] of one of their space stations. You will carry the [team, strike force] that does this, and our fleet will [protect, shield] you."
	It will take them some time to make the necessary modifications to the Mind. In the meantime, Tele'ek suggests that you should prepare for a major battle. "When you are ready," he says, "go to <planet> and rendezvous with the fleet that will accompany you to the Mereti system."
Escort the Wanderer fleet back to <planet>, where you will prepare to infiltrate the Kor Mereti station.
A Wanderer fleet is waiting here to take part in the attempt at joining the Wanderer Mind to the Kor Mereti. You notice that some of the ships that will be accompanying you are of yet another new design that you have never seen before; the Wanderer war machine is continuing to ramp up with remarkable speed.
Install the Mind
A Wanderer fleet will accompany you to the Chimitarp system, to install the Mind on the Korath station there.
When you meet with him, Meto Pa'aret tells you, "We have added a [backdoor, failsafe] to the Mind so that we can shut it down or regain control of it remotely if the [attempt? experiment?] fails. So we may lose the Mind, but at least the Mereti will not [turn, use] it against us."
	"Okay, I'm ready to give this a try!"
	"What do you think will happen when the Mind starts trying to access the Mereti network?"
	Pa'aret says, "It may take some time for the Mind to be [accepted, integrated] into their [consciousness?]. We may not know immediately if we have [succeeded? done the right thing?]."
	A team of Wanderer engineers boards your ship, and you prepare to deliver them, along with the artificial Mind, to the Kor Mereti space station in the <system> system.
You land on <planet>, but realize that your escort carrying Wanderer engineers and the Mind hasn't entered the system yet. Better depart and wait for it to arrive.
Defend the Mind
Fight off any of the Kor Mereti drones that are still attacking the Wanderers. Try not to anger the ones that seem to have switched sides.
With the Wanderer fleet keeping the automata off your back, you carefully pilot your ship into an abandoned docking bay. The Wanderers install the Mind in a niche near the back of the bay and then begin welding sheets of metal over the opening to prevent the Mereti drones from gaining easy access to the Mind to shut it down or destroy it. Meanwhile, every few seconds the bay is lit by a bright flash of weapons fire or exploding ships outside. Hopefully the Wanderer fleet is managing to hold its own against the drones.
	Soon the engineers are done, and you return to your ship to take off. As soon as you depart, the bay doors, which seemed inactive when you first entered, slam shut, and your ship's sensors detect Korath hull repair drones swarming over the doors, welding them in place and piling new layers of hull material on top of them. There is no longer any possibility of returning to the bay to retrieve the Mind. And meanwhile, it is time to rejoin the battle...
